<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 id="c25">CHAPTER XXV.<br/>
			<span class="small">LOOKING EASTWARD.</span></h2>
			<p>“It’s just a week,” I said, three days later, to Arthur, “since we heard of Lady Muriel’s engagement. I think <i>I</i> ought to call, at any rate, and offer my congratulations. Won’t you come with me?”</p>
			<p>A pained expression passed over his face. “When must you leave us?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“By the first train on Monday.”</p>
			<p>“Well—yes, I <i>will</i> come with you. It would seem strange and unfriendly if I didn’t. But this is only Friday. Give me till Sunday afternoon. I shall be stronger then.”</p>
			<p>Shading his eyes with one hand, as if half-ashamed of the tears that were coursing down his cheeks, he held the other out to me. It trembled as I clasped it.</p>
			<p>I tried to frame some words of sympathy; but they seemed poor and cold, and I left them unspoken. “Good night!” was all I said.</p>
			<p>“Good night, dear friend!” he replied. There was a manly vigour in his tone that convinced me he was wrestling with, and triumphing over, the great sorrow that had so nearly wrecked his life—and that, on the stepping-stone of his dead self, he would surely rise to higher things!</p>
			<p>There was no chance, I was glad to think, as we set out on Sunday afternoon, of meeting <i>Eric</i> at the Hall, as he had returned to town the day after his engagement was announced. <i>His</i> presence might have disturbed the calm—the almost unnatural calm—with which Arthur met the woman who had won his heart, and murmured the few graceful words of sympathy that the occasion demanded.</p>
			<p>Lady Muriel was perfectly radiant with happiness: sadness could not live in the light of such a smile: and even Arthur brightened under it, and, when she remarked “You see I’m watering my flowers, though it <i>is</i> the Sabbath-Day,” his voice had almost its old ring of cheerfulness as he replied “Even on the Sabbath-Day works of mercy are allowed. But this <i>isn’t</i> the Sabbath-Day. The Sabbath-Day has ceased to exist.”</p>
			<p>“I know it’s not <i>Saturday</i>,” Lady Muriel replied: “but isn’t Sunday often called ‘the Christian Sabbath’?”</p>
			<p>“It is so called, I think, in recognition of the <i>spirit</i> of the Jewish institution, that one day in seven should be a day of <i>rest</i>. But I hold that Christians are freed from the <i>literal</i> observance of the Fourth Commandment.”</p>
			<p>“Then where is our <i>authority</i> for Sunday observance?”</p>
			<p>“We have, first, the fact that the seventh day was ‘sanctified’, when God rested from the work of Creation. That is binding on us as <i>Theists</i>. Secondly, we have the fact that ‘the Lord’s Day’ is a <i>Christian</i> institution. That is binding on us as <i>Christians</i>.”</p>
			<p>“And your practical rules would be——?”</p>
			<p>“First, as Theists, to keep it <i>holy</i> in some special way, and to make it, so far as is reasonably possible, a day of <i>rest</i>. Secondly, as <i>Christians</i>, to attend public worship.”</p>
			<p>“And what of <i>amusements</i>?”</p>
			<p>“I would say of them, as of all kinds of <i>work</i>, whatever is innocent on a week-day, is innocent on Sunday, provided it does not interfere with the duties of the day.”</p>
			<p>“Then you would allow children to <i>play</i> on Sunday?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly I should. Why make the day irksome to their restless natures?”</p>
			<p>“I have a letter somewhere,” said Lady Muriel, “from an old friend, describing the way in which Sunday was kept in her younger days. I will fetch it for you.”</p>
			<p>“I had a similar description, <i>vivâ voce</i>, years ago,” Arthur said when she had left us, “from a little girl. It was really touching to hear the melancholy tone in which she said ‘On Sunday I mustn’t play with my doll! On Sunday I mustn’t run on the sands! On Sunday I mustn’t dig in the garden!’ Poor child! She had indeed abundant cause for hating Sunday!”</p>
			<p>“Here is the letter,” said Lady Muriel, returning. “Let me read you a piece of it.”</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>“<i>When, as a child, I first opened my eyes on a Sunday-morning, a feeling of dismal anticipation, which began at least on the Friday, culminated. I knew what was before me, and my wish, if not my word, was ‘Would God it were evening!’ It was no day of rest, but a day of texts, of catechisms (Watts’), of tracts about converted swearers, godly char-women, and edifying deaths of sinners saved.</i></p>
				<p>“<i>Up with the lark, hymns and portions of Scripture had to be learned by heart till 8 o’clock, when there were family-prayers, then breakfast, which I was never able to enjoy, partly from the fast already undergone, and partly from the outlook I dreaded.</i></p>
				<p>“<i>At 9 came Sunday-School; and it made me indignant to be put into the class with the village-children, as well as alarmed lest, by some mistake of mine, I should be put below them.</i></p>
				<p>“<i>The Church-Service was a veritable Wilderness of Zin. I wandered in it, pitching the tabernacle of my thoughts on the lining of the square family-pew, the fidgets of my small brothers, and the horror of knowing that, on the Monday, I should have to write out, from memory, jottings of the rambling disconnected extempore sermon, which might have had any text but its own, and to stand or fall by the result.</i></p>
				<p>“<i>This was followed by a cold dinner at 1</i> (<i>servants to have</i> no <i>work</i>), <i>Sunday-School again from 2 to 4, and Evening-Service at 6. The intervals were perhaps the greatest trial of all, from the efforts I had to make, to be less than usually sinful, by reading books and sermons as barren as the Dead Sea. There was but one rosy spot, in the distance, all that day: that was ‘bed-time,’ which never could come too early!</i>”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Such teaching was well meant, no doubt,” said Arthur; “but it must have driven many of its victims into deserting the Church-Services altogether.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid <i>I</i> was a deserter this morning,” she gravely said. “I had to write to Eric. Would you—would you mind my telling you something he said about <i>prayer</i>? It had never struck me in that light before.”</p>
			<p>“In what light?” said Arthur.</p>
			<p>“Why, that all Nature goes by fixed, regular laws—Science has proved <i>that</i>. So that asking God to <i>do</i> anything (except of course praying for <i>spiritual</i> blessings) is to expect a miracle: and we’ve no right to do <i>that</i>. I’ve not put it as well as <i>he</i> did: but that was the outcome of it, and it has confused me. Please tell me what you can say in answer to it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t propose to discuss <i>Captain Lindon’s</i> difficulties,” Arthur gravely replied; “specially as he is not present. But, if it is <i>your</i> difficulty,” (his voice unconsciously took a tenderer tone) “then I will speak.”</p>
			<p>“It <i>is</i> my difficulty,” she said anxiously.</p>
			<p>“Then I will begin by asking ‘Why did you except <i>spiritual</i> blessings?’ Is not your mind a part of Nature?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but Free-Will comes in there—I can <i>choose</i> this or that; and God can influence my choice.”</p>
			<p>“Then you are not a Fatalist?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no!” she earnestly exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“Thank God!” Arthur said to himself, but in so low a whisper that only <i>I</i> heard it. “You grant then that I can, by an act of free choice, move this cup,” suiting the action to the word, “<i>this</i> way or <i>that</i> way?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I grant it.”</p>
			<p>“Well, let us see how far the result is produced by fixed laws. The <i>cup</i> moves because certain mechanical forces are impressed on it by my <i>hand</i>. My <i>hand</i> moves because certain forces—electric, magnetic, or whatever ‘nerve-force’ may prove to be—are impressed on it by my <i>brain</i>. This nerve-force, stored in the brain, would probably be traceable, if Science were complete, to chemical forces supplied to the brain by the blood, and ultimately derived from the food I eat and the air I breathe.”</p>
			<p>“But would not that be Fatalism? Where would Free-Will come in?”</p>
			<p>“In <i>choice</i> of nerves,” replied Arthur. “The nerve-force in the brain may flow just as naturally down one nerve as down another. We need something more than a fixed Law of Nature to settle <i>which</i> nerve shall carry it. That ‘something’ is Free-Will.”</p>
			<p>Her eyes sparkled. “I see what you mean!” she exclaimed. “Human Free-Will is an exception to the system of fixed Law. Eric said something like that. And then I think he pointed out that God can only influence Nature by influencing Human Wills. So that we <i>might</i> reasonably pray ‘<i>give us this day our daily bread</i>,’ because many of the causes that produce bread are under Man’s control. But to pray for rain, or fine weather, would be as unreasonable as—” she checked herself, as if fearful of saying something irreverent.</p>
			<p>In a hushed, low tone, that trembled with emotion, and with the solemnity of one in the presence of death, Arthur slowly replied “<i>Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him?</i> Shall we, ‘the swarm that in the noontide beam were born,’ feeling in ourselves the power to direct, this way or that, the forces of Nature—of <i>Nature</i>, of which we form so trivial a part—shall we, in our boundless arrogance, in our pitiful conceit, <i>deny</i> that power to the Ancient of Days? Saying, to our Creator, ‘Thus far and no further. Thou madest, but thou canst not rule!’?”</p>
			<p>Lady Muriel had covered her face in her hands, and did not look up. She only murmured “Thanks, thanks!” again and again.</p>
			<p>We rose to go. Arthur said, with evident effort, “One word more. If you would <i>know</i> the power of Prayer—in anything and everything that Man can need—<i>try</i> it. <i>Ask, and it shall be given you.</i> I—<i>have</i> tried it. I <i>know</i> that God answers prayer!”</p>
			<p>Our walk home was a silent one, till we had nearly reached the lodgings: then Arthur murmured—and it was almost an echo of my own thoughts—“<i>What knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband?</i>”</p>
			<p>The subject was not touched on again. We sat on, talking, while hour after hour, of this our last night together, glided away unnoticed. He had much to tell me about India, and the new life he was going to, and the <i>work</i> he hoped to do. And his great generous soul seemed so filled with noble ambition as to have no space left for any vain regret or selfish repining.</p>
			<p>“Come, it is nearly morning!” Arthur said at last, rising and leading the way upstairs. “The sun will be rising in a few minutes: and, though I <i>have</i> basely defrauded you of your last chance of a night’s rest here, I’m sure you’ll forgive me: for I really <i>couldn’t</i> bring myself to say ‘Good night’ sooner. And God knows whether you’ll ever see me again, or hear of me!”</p>
			<p>“<i>Hear</i> of you I am certain I shall!” I warmly responded, and quoted the concluding lines of that strange poem ‘Waring’:—</p>
			<div class="verse">
				<p class="t7">“Oh, never star</p>
				<p class="t0">Was lost here, but it rose afar!</p>
				<p class="t0">Look East, where whole new thousands are!</p>
				<p class="t0">In Vishnu-land what Avatar?”</p>
			</div>
			<p>“Aye, look Eastward!” Arthur eagerly replied, pausing at the stair-case window, which commanded a fine view of the sea and the eastward horizon. “The West is the fitting tomb for all the sorrow and the sighing, all the errors and the follies of the Past: for all its withered Hopes and all its buried Loves! From the East comes new strength, new ambition, new Hope, new Life, new Love! Look Eastward! Aye, look Eastward!”</p>
			<p>His last words were still ringing in my ears as I entered my room, and undrew the window-curtains, just in time to see the sun burst in glory from his ocean-prison, and clothe the world in the light of a new day.</p>
			<p>“So may it be for him, and me, and all of us!” I mused. “All that is evil, and dead, and hopeless, fading with the Night that is past! All that is good, and living, and hopeful, rising with the dawn of Day!</p>
			<p>“Fading, with the Night, the chilly mists, and the noxious vapours, and the heavy shadows, and the wailing gusts, and the owl’s melancholy hootings: rising, with the Day, the darting shafts of light, and the wholesome morning breeze, and the warmth of a dawning life, and the mad music of the lark! Look Eastward!</p>
			<p>“Fading, with the Night, the clouds of ignorance, and the deadly blight of sin, and the silent tears of sorrow: and ever rising, higher, higher, with the Day, the radiant dawn of knowledge, and the sweet breath of purity, and the throb of a world’s ecstasy! Look Eastward!</p>
			<div class="img" id="fig47">
				<p class="center small">‘LOOK EASTWARD!’</p>
			</div>
			<p>“Fading, with the Night, the memory of a dead love, and the withered leaves of a blighted hope, and the sickly repinings and moody regrets that numb the best energies of the soul: and rising, broadening, rolling upward like a living flood, the manly resolve, and the dauntless will, and the heavenward gaze of faith—<i>the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen</i>!</p>
			<p>“Look Eastward! Aye, look Eastward!”</p>
			<p class="tbcenter">
				<span class="small">THE END.</span>
			</p>
			<h3 class="eee">FOOTNOTES</h3>
			<div class="fnblock">
				<div class="fndef"><a class="fn" href="#fr_1" id="fn_1">[1]</a>At the moment, when I had written these words, there was a knock at the door, and a telegram was brought me, announcing the sudden death of a dear friend.</div>
			</div>
			<h3 id="c26">INDEX.</h3>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_A">
					<b>A</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Artistic effect dependent on indistinctness (!); <a href="#Page_241">241</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_B">
					<b>B</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Barometer, sideways motion of; <a href="#Page_13">13</a></dt>
				<dt>Bath, portable, for Tourists; <a href="#Page_25">25</a></dt>
				<dt>Books or minds. Which contain most Science? <a href="#Page_21">21</a></dt>
				<dt>Boots for horizontal weather; <a href="#Page_14">14</a></dt>
				<dt>Brain, inverted position of; <a href="#Page_243">243</a></dt>
				<dt>Bread-sauce. What appropriate for? <a href="#Page_58">58</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_C">
					<b>C</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Carrying one’s-<i>self</i>. Why not fatiguing? <a href="#Page_169">169</a></dt>
				<dt>Child’s view of purpose of Life; <a href="#Page_330">330</a></dt>
				<dt>Choristers’ life, danger of; <a href="#Page_274">274</a></dt>
				<dt>Church-going, principle of; <a href="#Page_272">272</a></dt>
				<dt>Conceited people always <i>depreciate</i> others; <a href="#Page_237">237</a></dt>
				<dt>Content, opportunity for cultivating; <a href="#Page_152">152</a></dt>
				<dt>Conversation, how to indicate parentheses in; <a href="#Page_251">251</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">questions in; <a href="#Page_251">251</a></span></dd>
				<dd>‘Convenient’ and ‘Inconvenient,’ different meanings; <a href="#Page_140">140</a></dd>
				<dt>Critic, conceited, always <i>depreciates</i>; <a href="#Page_237">237</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">how to gain reputation of; <a href="#Page_238">238</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Crocodiles, logic of; <a href="#Page_230">230</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_D">
					<b>D</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Darwinism reversed; <a href="#Page_64">64</a></dt>
				<dt>Day, shortness of, and length of, compared; <a href="#Page_159">159</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">true length of; <a href="#Page_159">159</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Debt, how to avoid payment of; <a href="#Page_131">131</a></dt>
				<dt>Dreaminess, certain cure for; <a href="#Page_136">136</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_E">
					<b>E</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Electricity, influence of, on Literature; <a href="#Page_64">64</a></dt>
				<dt>Enjoyment of life, secret of; <a href="#Page_335">335</a></dt>
				<dt>Events in reversed order; <a href="#Page_350">350</a></dt>
				<dt>Extreme sobriety, inconvenience of; <a href="#Page_140">140</a></dt>
				<dt>Eye, images inverted by; <a href="#Page_242">242</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_F">
					<b>F</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Fairies, how to improve character of; <a href="#Page_190">190</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">recognise presence of; <a href="#Page_191">191</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Falling house, life in a; <a href="#Page_100">100</a></dt>
				<dt>Final Causes, problem in; <a href="#Page_297">297</a></dt>
				<dt>Free-will and nerve-force; <a href="#Page_390">390</a></dt>
				<dt>Frog, young, how to amuse; <a href="#Page_364">364</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_G">
					<b>G</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Gardener’s Song;</dt>
				<dd>Elephant; <a href="#Page_65">65</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Buffalo; <a href="#Page_78">78</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Rattlesnake; <a href="#Page_83">83</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Banker’s Clerk; <a href="#Page_90">90</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Kangaroo; <a href="#Page_106">106</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Coach-and-Four; <a href="#Page_116">116</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Albatross; <a href="#Page_164">164</a>.</dd>
				<dd>Garden-Door; <a href="#Page_168">168</a></dd>
				<dt>Ghosts, treatment of, by Shakespeare; <a href="#Page_60">60</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">in Railway-Literature; <a href="#Page_58">58</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">weltering, appropriate fluid for; <a href="#Page_58">58</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Graduated races of men; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_H">
					<b>H</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Happiness, excessive, how to moderate; <a href="#Page_159">159</a></dt>
				<dt>Honesty, Dr. Watts’ argument for; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></dt>
				<dt>Horizontal rain, boots for; <a href="#Page_14">14</a></dt>
				<dt>House falling through Space, life in a; <a href="#Page_100">100</a></dt>
				<dt>Hymns appealing to selfishness; <a href="#Page_276">276</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_I">
					<b>I</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>‘Inconvenient’ and ‘Convenient’, different meanings; <a href="#Page_140">140</a></dt>
				<dt>Indistinctness necessary for artistic effect (!); <a href="#Page_241">241</a></dt>
				<dt>Inversion of Brain; <a href="#Page_243">243</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">images on Retina; <a href="#Page_242">242</a></span></dd>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_L">
					<b>L</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Ladies, logic of; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></dt>
				<dt>Least Common Multiple, rule of, applied to Literature; <a href="#Page_22">22</a></dt>
				<dt>Life, how to enjoy; <a href="#Page_335">335</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">in falling house; <a href="#Page_100">100</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">in reversed order; <a href="#Page_350">350</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">purpose of, as viewed by Child; <a href="#Page_330">330</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">regarded as a Drama; <a href="#Page_333">333</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Literature, development of, due to Steam; <a href="#Page_64">64</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">Electricity; <a href="#Page_64">64</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">for Railway; <a href="#Page_58">58</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">treated by Rule of Least Common Multiple; <a href="#Page_22">22</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Little man, privilege of being a; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></dt>
				<dt>Liturgy, chanted, effect of; <a href="#Page_273">273</a></dt>
				<dt>Logic of Crocodiles; <a href="#Page_230">230</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">Dr. Watts; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">ladies; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">requisites for complete argument in; <a href="#Page_259">259</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Loving or being loved. Which is best? <a href="#Page_77">77</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_M">
					<b>M</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Men, graduated races of; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">little, privileges of; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Minds or books. Which contain most Science? <a href="#Page_21">21</a></dt>
				<dt>Money, effect of doubling value of; <a href="#Page_312">312</a></dt>
				<dt>Music, how to get the largest amount of; <a href="#Page_338">338</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_N">
					<b>N</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Nerve-force and free-will; <a href="#Page_390">390</a></dt>
				<dt>Nerves, curiously slow action of; <a href="#Page_158">158</a></dt>
				<dt>Novel-reading, how to enjoy; <a href="#Page_336">336</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_O">
					<b>O</b>
				</dt>
				<dt><i>Onus probandi</i> misplaced by Crocodiles; <a href="#Page_230">230</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">Dr. Watts; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">ladies; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Order of events reversed; <a href="#Page_250">250</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_P">
					<b>P</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Pain, how to minimise; <a href="#Page_337">337</a></dt>
				<dt>Paley’s definition of Virtue; <a href="#Page_274">274</a></dt>
				<dt>Parentheses in conversation, how to indicate; <a href="#Page_251">251</a></dt>
				<dt>‘Phlizz’, a visionary flower; <a href="#Page_282">282</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">fruit; <a href="#Page_75">75</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">nurse-maid; <a href="#Page_283">283</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Pictures, how to criticize; <a href="#Page_238">238</a></dt>
				<dt>Pleasure, how to maximise; <a href="#Page_335">335</a></dt>
				<dt>Plunge-bath, portable; <a href="#Page_25">25</a></dt>
				<dt>Poor people, simple method for enriching; <a href="#Page_312">312</a></dt>
				<dt>Portable bath for tourists; <a href="#Page_25">25</a></dt>
				<dt>Poverty, the blessings of; <a href="#Page_152">152</a></dt>
				<dt>Prayer for temporal blessings, effect of; <a href="#Page_391">391</a></dt>
				<dt>Preachers, exceptional privileges of; <a href="#Page_277">277</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">appealing to selfishness; <a href="#Page_276">276</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Proof, burden of, misplaced by Crocodiles; <a href="#Page_230">230</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">Dr. Watts; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">ladies; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></span></dd>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_Q">
					<b>Q</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Questions in conversation, how to indicate; <a href="#Page_251">251</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_R">
					<b>R</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Railway-literature; <a href="#Page_58">58</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">scenes regarded as dramatic; <a href="#Page_333">333</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Rain, horizontal, boots for; <a href="#Page_14">14</a></dt>
				<dt>Retina, images inverted on; <a href="#Page_242">242</a></dt>
				<dt>Reversed order of events; <a href="#Page_350">350</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_S">
					<b>S</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Scenery, enjoyment of, by little men; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></dt>
				<dt>Science. Do books, or minds, contain most? <a href="#Page_21">21</a></dt>
				<dt>Selfishness appealed to in hymns; <a href="#Page_276">276</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">religious teaching; <a href="#Page_275">275</a></span></dd>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">sermons; <a href="#Page_276">276</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Sermons appealing to selfishness; <a href="#Page_276">276</a></dt>
				<dt class="pb" id="Page_400">400</dt>
				<dt>Shakespeare, passages treated of:—</dt>
				<dd>‘All the world’s a stage’; <a href="#Page_335">335</a></dd>
				<dd>‘Aye, every inch a king!’; <a href="#Page_373">373</a></dd>
				<dd>‘Is this a dagger that I see before me?’; <a href="#Page_371">371</a></dd>
				<dd>‘Rest, rest, perturbed Spirit!’; <a href="#Page_60">60</a></dd>
				<dd>‘To be, or not to be’; <a href="#Page_370">370</a></dd>
				<dt>Shakespeare’s treatment of ghosts; <a href="#Page_60">60</a></dt>
				<dt>Short man, privilege of being a; <a href="#Page_299">299</a></dt>
				<dt>Sillygism, requisites for a; <a href="#Page_259">259</a></dt>
				<dt>Sobriety, extreme, inconvenience of; <a href="#Page_140">140</a></dt>
				<dt>Spencer, Herbert, difficulties in; <a href="#Page_258">258</a></dt>
				<dt>Sport, false and true; <a href="#Page_318">318</a></dt>
				<dt>Steam, influence of, on Literature; <a href="#Page_64">64</a></dt>
				<dt>Sunday, as spent by children of last generation; <a href="#Page_387">387</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">observance of; <a href="#Page_385">385</a></span></dd>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_T">
					<b>T</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Time, how to put back; <a href="#Page_314">314</a>, <a href="#Page_347">347</a></dt>
				<dd>” <span class="hst">”</span> <span class="hst">reverse; <a href="#Page_350">350</a></span></dd>
				<dt>Tourists’ portable bath; <a href="#Page_25">25</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_V">
					<b>V</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Virtue, Paley’s definition of; <a href="#Page_274">274</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<dl class="index">
				<dt class="center" id="index_W">
					<b>W</b>
				</dt>
				<dt>Watts, Dr., weak logic of; <a href="#Page_235">235</a></dt>
				<dt>Weather, horizontal, boots for; <a href="#Page_14">14</a></dt>
				<dt>Weight, relative, conceivably non-existent; <a href="#Page_100">100</a></dt>
				<dt>Weltering, appropriate fluids for; <a href="#Page_58">58</a></dt>
			</dl>
			<h3 class="eee">WORKS OF LEWIS CARROLL.</h3>
			<p class="center">
				<i>Published by Macmillan &amp; Co.</i>
			</p>
			<h3>ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND.</h3>
			<p>With 42 Illustrations by <span class="sc">Tenniel</span>. 12mo, cloth, gilt, $1.00.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Lewis Carroll’s immortal story.—<i>Academy.</i></p>
				<p>An excellent piece of nonsense.—<i>Times.</i></p>
				<p>That most delightful of children’s stories.—<i>Saturday Review.</i></p>
				<p>Elegant and delicious nonsense.—<i>Guardian.</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS AND WHAT ALICE FOUND THERE.</h3>
			<p>With 50 Illustrations by <span class="sc">Tenniel</span>. 12mo, cloth, gilt, $1.00.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Will fairly rank with the tale of her previous experience.—<i>Daily Telegraph.</i></p>
				<p>Many of Mr. Tenniel’s designs are masterpieces of wise absurdity.—<i>Athenæum.</i></p>
				<p>Whether as regarding author or illustrator, this book is a jewel rarely to be found nowadays.—<i>Echo.</i></p>
				<p>Not a whit inferior to its predecessor in grand extravagance of imagination, and delicious allegorical nonsense.—<i>Quarterly Review.</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND, and THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS AND WHAT ALICE FOUND THERE.</h3>
			<p>Printed in one volume, with all the Illustrations. 12mo, cloth, plain, $1.25.</p>
			<h3>SYLVIE AND BRUNO.</h3>
			<p>With 46 Illustrations by <span class="sc">Harry Furniss</span>. 12mo, cloth, gilt, $1.50.</p>
			<h3>RHYME? AND REASON?</h3>
			<p>With 65 Illustrations by <span class="sc">Arthur B. Frost</span>, and 9 by <span class="sc">Henry Holiday</span>. 12mo, cloth, gilt, $1.50.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>This book is a reprint, with additions, of the comic portions of “Phantasmagoria, and other Poems,” and of the “Hunting of the Snark.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>A TANGLED TALE.</h3>
			<p>Reprinted from the <i>Monthly Packet</i>, with Illustrations. $1.50.</p>
			<h3>ALICE’S ADVENTURES UNDERGROUND.</h3>
			<p>Being a fac-simile of the original MS. Book, afterward developed into “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.” With 37 Illustrations by the author. 12mo, cloth, gilt, $1.50.</p>
			<h3>THE GAME OF LOGIC.</h3>
			<p>With envelope containing card and counters. 12mo, cloth, $1.00.</p>
			<h3 id="c27"><span class="smaller">MRS. MOLESWORTH’S</span><br/>
			<span class="sc">Story Books for Children</span>.</h3>
			<p class="center">
				<i>Published by Macmillan &amp; Co.</i>
			</p>
			<h3>THE RECTORY CHILDREN.</h3>
			<p>With Illustrations by <span class="sc">Walter Crane</span>. 16mo, cloth, extra, $1.25.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>It is a book written for children in just the way that is best adapted to please them.—<i>Morning Post.</i></p>
				<p>Mrs. Molesworth has written, in “The Rectory Children,” one of those delightful volumes which we always look for at Christmas time.—<i>Athenæum.</i></p>
				<p>A delightful Christmas book for children; a racy, charming home story full of good impulses and bright suggestions.—<i>Boston Traveller.</i></p>
				<p>Quiet, sunny, interesting, and thoroughly winning and wholesome.—<i>Boston Journal.</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>NEW EDITION OF MRS. MOLESWORTH’S WORKS.</h3>
			<p>With Illustrations by <span class="sc">Walter Crane</span>. 16mo, cloth, extra, $1.00 each.</p>
			<dl class="undent">
				<dt>FOUR WINDS FARM.</dt>
				<dt>“US.” An Old-Fashioned Story.</dt>
				<dt>CHRISTMAS TREE LAND.</dt>
				<dt>TWO LITTLE WAIFS.</dt>
				<dt>THE TAPESTRY ROOM.</dt>
				<dt>A CHRISTMAS CHILD.</dt>
				<dt>GRANDMOTHER DEAR.</dt>
				<dt>“CARROTS.”</dt>
				<dt>THE CUCKOO CLOCK.</dt>
				<dt>TELL ME A STORY.</dt>
				<dt>THE ADVENTURES OF HERR BABY ROSY.</dt>
				<dt>LITTLE MISS PEGGY.</dt>
				<dt>A CHRISTMAS POSY.</dt>
			</dl>
			<blockquote>
				<p>There is no more acceptable writer for children than Mrs. Molesworth.—<i>Literary World.</i></p>
				<p>No English writer of stories for children has a better reputation than Mrs. Molesworth, and none whose stories we are familiar with deserves it better.—<i>New York Mail and Express.</i></p>
				<p>Mistress of the art of writing for children.—<i>Spectator.</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="tbcenter">MACMILLAN &amp; CO.,<br/>
			<span class="sc">112 Fourth Avenue, New York.</span></p>
			<h2>Verse from volume 2</h2>
			<div class="verse">
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Dreams, that elude the Waker’s frenzied grasp—</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Hands, stark and still, on a dead Mother’s breast,</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Which nevermore shall render clasp for clasp,</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Or deftly soothe a weeping Child to rest—</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>In suchlike forms me listeth to portray</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>My Tale, here ended. Thou delicious Fay—</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>The guardian of a Sprite that lives to tease thee—</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Loving in earnest, chiding but in play</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>The merry mocking Bruno! Who, that sees thee,</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>Can fail to love thee, Darling, even as I?—</b>
				</p>
				<p class="t0">
					<b>My sweetest Sylvie, we must say ‘Good-bye!’</b>
				</p>
			</div>
			<hr/>
			<h2 class="eee">PREFACE.</h2>
			<p>I must begin with the same announcement as in the previous Volume (which I shall henceforward refer to as “Vol. I.,” calling the present Volume “Vol. II.”), viz. that the Locket, at <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_405">p. 405</a>, was drawn by ‘Miss Alice Havers.’ And my reason, for not stating this on the title-page—that it seems only due, to the artist of these wonderful pictures, that his name should stand there alone—has, I think, even greater weight in Vol. II. than it had in Vol. I. Let me call especial attention to the three “Little Birds” borders, at pp. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_365">365</a>, <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_371">371</a>, <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_377">377</a>. The way, in which he has managed to introduce the most minute details of the stanzas to be illustrated, seems to me a triumph of artistic ingenuity.</p>
			<p class="tb">Let me here express my sincere gratitude to the many Reviewers who have noticed, whether favorably or unfavorably, the previous Volume. Their unfavorable remarks were, most probably, well-deserved; the favorable ones less probably so. Both kinds have no doubt served to make the book known, and have helped the reading Public to form their opinions of it. Let me also here assure them that it is not from any want of respect for their criticisms, that I have carefully forborne from reading <i>any</i> of them. I am strongly of opinion that an author had far better <i>not</i> read any reviews of his books: the unfavorable ones are almost certain to make him cross, and the favorable ones conceited; and <i>neither</i> of these results is desirable.</p>
			<p>Criticisms have, however, reached me from private sources, to some of which I propose to offer a reply.</p>
			<p>One such critic complains that Arthur’s strictures, on sermons and on choristers, are too severe. Let me say, in reply, that I do <i>not</i> hold myself responsible for <i>any</i> of the opinions expressed by the characters in my book. They are simply opinions which, it seemed to me, might probably be held by the persons into whose mouths I put them, and which were worth consideration.</p>
			<p>Other critics have objected to certain innovations in spelling, such as “ca’n’t,” “wo’n’t,” “traveler.” In reply, I can only plead my firm conviction that the popular usage is <i>wrong</i>. As to “ca’n’t,” it will not be disputed that, in all <i>other</i> words ending in “n’t,” these letters are an abbreviation of “not”; and it is surely absurd to suppose that, in this solitary instance, “not” is represented by “’t”! In fact “can’t” is the <i>proper</i> abbreviation for “can it,” just as “is’t” is for “is it.” Again, in “wo’n’t,” the first apostrophe is needed, because the word “would” is here <i>abridged</i> into “wo”: but I hold it proper to spell “don’t” with only <i>one</i> apostrophe, because the word “do” is here <i>complete</i>. As to such words as “traveler,” I hold the correct principle to be, to <i>double</i> the consonant when the accent falls on that syllable; otherwise to leave it <i>single</i>. This rule is observed in most cases (e.g. we double the “r” in “preferred,” but leave it single in “offered”), so that I am only extending, to other cases, an existing rule. I admit, however, that I do not spell “parallel,” as the rule would have it; but here we are constrained, by the etymology, to insert the double “l”.</p>
			<p class="tb">In the Preface to Vol. I. were two puzzles, on which my readers might exercise their ingenuity. One was, to detect the 3 lines of “padding,” which I had found it necessary to supply in the passage extending from the top of <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_35" id="id-6429806437688115808">p. 35</a> to the middle of <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_38" id="id-1643881559887496306">p. 38</a>. They are the 14th, 15th, and 16th lines of <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_37" id="id-3854097988354324042">p. 37</a>. The other puzzle was, to determine which (if any) of the 8 stanzas of the Gardener’s Song (see pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_65" id="id-7938496770928067716">65</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_78" id="id-3295510837044261916">78</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_83" id="id-3722318547145985164">83</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_90" id="id-4453715354053935105">90</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_106" id="id-4345263187159285646">106</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_116" id="id-2446829749840315476">116</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_164" id="id-604598353239577224">164</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_168" id="id-4011504331226640446">168</a>) were adapted to the context, and which (if any) had the context adapted to them. The last of them is the only one that was adapted to the context, the “Garden-Door that opened with a key” having been substituted for some creature (a Cormorant, I think) “that nestled in a tree.” At pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_78" id="id-2286829513647342370">78</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_106" id="id-9179905809395199319">106</a>, and <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_164" id="id-4030995101079638135">164</a>, the context was adapted to the stanza. At p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_90" id="id-6372431994867579797">90</a>, neither stanza nor context was altered: the connection between them was simply a piece of good luck.</p>
			<p>In the Preface to Vol. I., at pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_ix" id="id-2240383587893420634">ix</a>., <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_x" id="id-2977716910267847697">x</a>., I gave an account of the making-up of the story of “Sylvie and Bruno.” A few more details may perhaps be acceptable to my Readers.</p>
			<p>It was in 1873, as I <i>now</i> believe, that the idea first occurred to me that a little fairy-tale (written, in 1867, for “Aunt Judy’s Magazine,” under the title “Bruno’s Revenge”) might serve as the nucleus of a longer story. This I surmise, from having found the original draft of the last paragraph of Vol. II., dated 1873. So that this paragraph has been waiting 20 years for its chance of emerging into print—more than twice the period so cautiously recommended by Horace for ‘repressing’ one’s literary efforts!</p>
			<p>It was in February, 1885, that I entered into negotiations, with Mr. Harry Furniss, for illustrating the book. Most of the substance of <i>both</i> Volumes was then in existence in manuscript: and my original intention was to publish the <i>whole</i> story at once. In September, 1885, I received from Mr. Furniss the first set of drawings—the four which illustrate “Peter and Paul” (see I. pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_144" id="id-7455168007181879524">144</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_147" id="id-8122821741094655418">147</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_150" id="id-2122572353198916353">150</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_154" id="id-163840613352020739">154</a>): in November, 1886, I received the second set—the three which illustrate the Professor’s song about the “little man” who had “a little gun” (Vol. II. pp. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_265">265</a>, <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_266">266</a>, <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_267">267</a>): and in January, 1887, I received the third set—the four which illustrate the “Pig-Tale.”</p>
			<p>So we went on, illustrating first one bit of the story, and then another, without any idea of sequence. And it was not till March, 1889, that, having calculated the number of pages the story would occupy, I decided on dividing it into <i>two</i> portions, and publishing it half at a time. This necessitated the writing of a <i>sort</i> of conclusion for the first Volume: and <i>most</i> of my Readers, I fancy, regarded this as the <i>actual</i> conclusion, when that Volume appeared in December, 1889. At any rate, among all the letters I received about it, there was only <i>one</i> which expressed <i>any</i> suspicion that it was not a <i>final</i> conclusion. This letter was from a child. She wrote “we were so glad, when we came to the end of the book, to find that there was no ending-up, for that shows us that you are going to write a sequel.”</p>
			<p>It may interest some of my Readers to know the <i>theory</i> on which this story is constructed. It is an attempt to show what might <i>possibly</i> happen, supposing that Fairies really existed; and that they were sometimes visible to us, and we to them; and that they were sometimes able to assume human form: and supposing, also, that human beings might sometimes become conscious of what goes on in the Fairy-world—by actual transference of their immaterial essence, such as we meet with in ‘Esoteric Buddhism.’</p>
			<p>I have supposed a Human being to be capable of various psychical states, with varying degrees of consciousness, as follows:—</p>
			<p>(<i>a</i>) the ordinary state, with no consciousness of the presence of Fairies;</p>
			<p>(<i>b</i>) the ‘eerie’ state, in which, while conscious of actual surroundings, he is <i>also</i> conscious of the presence of Fairies;</p>
			<p>(<i>c</i>) a form of trance, in which, while <i>un</i>conscious of actual surroundings, and apparently asleep, he (i.e. his immaterial essence) migrates to other scenes, in the actual world, or in Fairyland, and is conscious of the presence of Fairies.</p>
			<p>I have also supposed a Fairy to be capable of migrating from Fairyland into the actual world, and of assuming, at pleasure, a Human form; and also to be capable of various psychical states, viz.</p>
			<p>(<i>a</i>) the ordinary state, with no consciousness of the presence of Human beings;</p>
			<p>(<i>b</i>) a sort of ‘eerie’ state, in which he is conscious, if in the actual world, of the presence of actual Human beings; if in Fairyland, of the presence of the immaterial essences of Human beings.</p>
			<p>I will here tabulate the passages, in both Volumes, where abnormal states occur.</p>
			<table class="center">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="5">Historian’s Locality and State.</th>
						<th class="l">Other characters.</th>
						<th class="c"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<th>Vol. I.</th>
						<th class="l"> </th>
						<th class="c"> </th>
						<th class="c"> </th>
						<th class="c"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r">pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_1" id="id-7750167453171645">1</a>-16</td>
						<td class="l">In train</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">Chancellor (<i>b</i>) p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_2" id="id-6644878918329106728">2</a>.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_33" id="id-5214736069188727159">33</a>-55</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_65" id="id-5141632846322450548">65</a>-79</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_83" id="id-1636745791266525998">83</a>-99</td>
						<td class="l">At lodgings</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_105" id="id-8173403414784318693">105</a>-117</td>
						<td class="l">On beach</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_119" id="id-5676420164085067032">119</a>-183</td>
						<td class="l">At lodgings</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">S. and B. (<i>b</i>) pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_158" id="id-6832484650005465993">158</a>-163. Professor (<i>b</i>) p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_169" id="id-3234088123808558013">169</a>.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_190" id="id-8250519498871055421">190</a>-221</td>
						<td class="l">In wood</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">Bruno (<i>b</i>) pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_198" id="id-4675850001854389075">198</a>-220.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_225" id="id-7257345932934467606">225</a>-233</td>
						<td class="l">do. sleep-walking</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">S. and B. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_247" id="id-6037911609854148330">247</a>-253</td>
						<td class="l">Among ruins</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_262" id="id-6342239197143839130">262</a>, 263</td>
						<td class="l">do. dreaming</td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>a</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_263" id="id-7198825993224735375">263</a>-269</td>
						<td class="l">do. sleep-walking</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">S. B. and Professor in Human form.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r">
							<a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_270" id="id-7642023648531382839">270</a>
						</td>
						<td class="l">In street</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_279" id="id-3297309936852518914">279</a>-294</td>
						<td class="l">At station, &amp;c.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">S. and B. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_304" id="id-725939055739391504">304</a>-323</td>
						<td class="l">In garden</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">S. B. and Professor (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_329" id="id-7775132699516957342">329</a>-344</td>
						<td class="l">On road, &amp;c.</td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>a</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">S. and B. in Human form.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_345" id="id-8939120326966829367">345</a>-356</td>
						<td class="l">In street, &amp;c.</td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>a</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_361" id="id-3879789671417316494">361</a>-382</td>
						<td class="l">In wood</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">S. and B. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<th>Vol. II.</th>
						<th class="l"> </th>
						<th class="c"> </th>
						<th class="c"> </th>
						<th class="c"/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r">pp. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_4">4</a>-18</td>
						<td class="l">In garden</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">S. and B (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_47">47</a>-52</td>
						<td class="l">On road</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_53">53</a>-78</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">do. in Human form.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_79">79</a>-92</td>
						<td class="l">do</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_152">152</a>-211</td>
						<td class="l">In drawing-room</td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>a</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">do. in Human form.</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_212">212</a>-246</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_262">262</a>-270</td>
						<td class="l">In smoking-room</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_304">304</a>-309</td>
						<td class="l">In wood</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l">do. (<i>a</i>); Lady Muriel (<i>b</i>).</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_311">311</a>-345</td>
						<td class="l">At lodgings</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_351">351</a>-399</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>c</i>
						</td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="r"><a class="pginternal" href="#Page_407">407</a>-end.</td>
						<td class="l">do.</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="c">
							<i>b</i>
						</td>
						<td class="c"> </td>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>In the Preface to Vol. I., at p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_x" id="id-1097647566694754465">x</a>., I gave an account of the <i>origination</i> of some of the ideas embodied in the book. A few more such details may perhaps interest my Readers:—</p>
			<p>I. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_203" id="id-7637095028068687312">p. 203</a>. The very peculiar use, here made of a dead mouse, comes from real life. I once found two very small boys, in a garden, playing a microscopic game of ‘Single-Wicket.’ The bat was, I think, about the size of a table-spoon; and the utmost distance attained by the ball, in its most daring flights, was some 4 or 5 yards. The <i>exact</i> length was of course a matter of <i>supreme</i> importance; and it was always carefully measured out (the batsman and the bowler amicably sharing the toil) with a dead mouse!</p>
			<p>I. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_259" id="id-3855278236527148100">p. 259</a>. The two quasi-mathematical Axioms, quoted by Arthur at p. 259 of Vol. I., (“Things that are greater than the same are greater than one another,” and “All angles are equal”) were actually enunciated, in all seriousness, by undergraduates at a University situated not 100 miles from Ely.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_10">p. 10</a>. Bruno’s remark (“I can, if I like, &amp;c.”) was actually made by a little boy.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_12">p. 12</a>. So also was his remark (“I know what it <i>doesn’t</i> spell.”) And his remark (“I just twiddled my eyes, &amp;c.”) I heard from the lips of a little girl, who had just solved a puzzle I had set her.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_57">p. 57</a>. Bruno’s soliloquy (“For its father, &amp;c.”) was actually spoken by a little girl, looking out of the window of a railway-carriage.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_138">p. 138</a>. The remark, made by a guest at the dinner-party, when asking for a dish of fruit (“I’ve been wishing for them, &amp;c.”) I heard made by the great Poet-Laureate, whose loss the whole reading-world has so lately had to deplore.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_163">p. 163</a>. Bruno’s speech, on the subject of the age of ‘Mein Herr,’ embodies the reply of a little girl to the question “Is your grandmother an <i>old</i> lady?” “I don’t know if she’s an <i>old</i> lady,” said this cautious young person; “she’s <i>eighty-three</i>.”</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_203">p. 203</a>. The speech about ‘Obstruction’ is no mere creature of my imagination! It is copied <i>verbatim</i> from the columns of the Standard, and was spoken by Sir William Harcourt, who was, at the time, a member of the ‘Opposition,’ at the ‘National Liberal Club,’ on July the 16th, 1890.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_329">p. 329</a>. The Professor’s remark, about a dog’s tail, that “it doesn’t bite at <i>that</i> end,” was actually made by a child, when warned of the danger he was incurring by pulling the dog’s tail.</p>
			<p>II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_374">p. 374</a>. The dialogue between Sylvie and Bruno, which occupies lines 6 to 15, is a <i>verbatim</i> report (merely substituting “cake” for “penny”) of a dialogue overheard between two children.</p>
			<p class="tb">One story in this Volume—‘Bruno’s Picnic’—I can vouch for as suitable for telling to children, having tested it again and again; and, whether my audience has been a dozen little girls in a village-school, or some thirty or forty in a London drawing-room, or a hundred in a High School, I have always found them earnestly attentive, and keenly appreciative of such fun as the story supplied.</p>
			<p>May I take this opportunity of calling attention to what I flatter myself was a successful piece of name-coining, at <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_42" id="id-2404659226550294505">p. 42</a> of Vol. I. Does not the name ‘Sibimet’ fairly embody the character of the Sub-Warden? The gentle Reader has no doubt observed what a singularly useless article in a house a brazen trumpet is, if you simply leave it lying about, and never blow it!</p>
			<p>Readers of the first Volume, who have amused themselves by trying to solve the two puzzles propounded at pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_xi" id="id-7760444038433577657">xi</a>., <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_xii" id="id-5427086443462176836">xii</a>. of the Preface, may perhaps like to exercise their ingenuity in discovering which (if any) of the following parallelisms were intentional, and which (if any) accidental.</p>
			<table class="center">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="2">“Little Birds.”</th>
						<th class="l">Events, and Persons.</th>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l">Stanza</td>
						<td class="r">1.</td>
						<td class="l">Banquet.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">2.</td>
						<td class="l">Chancellor.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">3.</td>
						<td class="l">Empress and Spinach (II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_325">325</a>).</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">4.</td>
						<td class="l">Warden’s Return.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">5.</td>
						<td class="l">Professor’s Lecture (II. <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_339">339</a>).</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">6.</td>
						<td class="l">Other Professor’s song (I. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_138" id="id-8134351906526052422">138</a>).</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">7.</td>
						<td class="l">Petting of Uggug.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">8.</td>
						<td class="l">Baron Doppelgeist.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">9.</td>
						<td class="l">Jester and Bear (I. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_119" id="id-148406620397175465">119</a>). Little Foxes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td class="l"> </td>
						<td class="r">10.</td>
						<td class="l">Bruno’s Dinner-Bell; Little Foxes.</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>I will publish the answer to this puzzle in the Preface to a little book of “Original Games and Puzzles,” now in course of preparation.</p>
			<p>I have reserved, for the last, one or two rather more serious topics.</p>
			<p class="tb">I had intended, in this Preface, to discuss more fully, than I had done in the previous Volume, the ‘Morality of Sport’, with special reference to letters I have received from lovers of Sport, in which they point out the many great advantages which men get from it, and try to prove that the suffering, which it inflicts on animals, is too trivial to be regarded.</p>
			<p>But, when I came to think the subject out, and to arrange the whole of the arguments ‘pro’ and ‘con’, I found it much too large for treatment here. Some day, I hope to publish an essay on this subject. At present, I will content myself with stating the net result I have arrived at.</p>
			<p>It is, that God has given to Man an absolute right to take the <i>lives</i> of other animals, for <i>any</i> reasonable cause, such as the supply of food: but that He has <i>not</i> given to Man the right to inflict <i>pain</i>, unless when <i>necessary</i>: that mere pleasure, or advantage, does not constitute such a necessity: and, consequently, that pain, inflicted for the purposes of <i>Sport</i>, is cruel, and therefore wrong. But I find it a far more complex question than I had supposed; and that the ‘case’, on the side of the Sportsman, is a much stronger one than I had supposed. So, for the present, I say no more about it.</p>
			<p class="tb">Objections have been raised to the severe language I have put into the mouth of ‘Arthur’, at p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_277" id="id-1914956262962432825">277</a>, on the subject of ‘Sermons,’ and at pp. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_273" id="id-464066851668932543">273</a>, <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_274" id="id-742875844672768445">274</a>, on the subjects of Choral Services and ‘Choristers.’</p>
			<p>I have already protested against the assumption that I am ready to endorse the opinions of characters in my story. But, in these two instances, I admit that I am much in sympathy with ‘Arthur.’ In my opinion, far too many sermons are expected from our preachers; and, as a consequence, a great many are preached, which are not worth listening to; and, as a consequence of <i>that</i>, we are very apt <i>not</i> to listen. The reader of this paragraph probably heard a sermon last Sunday morning? Well, let him, if he can, name the text, and state how the preacher treated it!</p>
			<p>Then, as to ‘Choristers,’ and all the other accessories—of music, vestments, processions, &amp;c.,—which have come, along with them, into fashion—while freely admitting that the ‘Ritual’ movement was sorely needed, and that it has effected a vast improvement in our Church-Services, which had become dead and dry to the last degree, I hold that, like many other desirable movements, it has gone too far in the opposite direction, and has introduced many new dangers.</p>
			<p>For the Congregation this new movement involves the danger of learning to think that the Services are done <i>for</i> them; and that their bodily <i>presence</i> is all they need contribute. And, for Clergy and Congregation alike, it involves the danger of regarding these elaborate Services as <i>ends in themselves</i>, and of forgetting that they are simply <i>means</i>, and the very hollowest of mockeries, unless they bear fruit in our <i>lives</i>.</p>
			<p>For the Choristers it seems to involve the danger of self-conceit, as described at p. <a class="pgexternal x" href="file:///public/vhost/g/gutenberg/html/files/48630/48630-h/48630-h.htm#Page_274" id="id-6044670569358840768">274</a>, the danger of regarding those parts of the Service, where their help is not required, as not worth attending to, the danger of coming to regard the Service as a mere outward form—a series of postures to be assumed, and of words to be said or sung, while the <i>thoughts</i> are elsewhere—and the danger of ‘familiarity’ breeding ‘contempt’ for sacred things.</p>
			<p>Let me illustrate these last two forms of danger, from my own experience. Not long ago, I attended a Cathedral-Service, and was placed immediately behind a row of men, members of the Choir; and I could not help noticing that they treated the <i>Lessons</i> as a part of the Service to which they needed not to give <i>any</i> attention, and as affording them a convenient opportunity for arranging music-books, &amp;c., &amp;c. Also I have frequently seen a row of little choristers, after marching in procession to their places, kneel down, as if about to pray, and rise from their knees after a minute spent in looking about them, it being but too evident that the attitude was a mere mockery. Surely it is very dangerous, for these children, to thus accustom them to <i>pretend</i> to pray? As an instance of irreverent treatment of holy things, I will mention a custom, which no doubt many of my readers have noticed in Churches where the Clergy and Choir enter in procession, viz. that, at the end of the private devotions, which are carried on in the vestry, and which are of course inaudible to the Congregation, the final “Amen” is <i>shouted</i>, loud enough to be heard all through the Church. This serves as a signal, to the Congregation, to prepare to rise when the procession appears: and it admits of no dispute that it is for this purpose that it is thus shouted. When we remember to Whom that “Amen” is <i>really</i> addressed, and consider that it is here <i>used</i> for the same purpose as one of the Church-bells, we must surely admit that it is a piece of gross irreverence? To <i>me</i> it is much as if I were to see a Bible used as a footstool.</p>
			<p>As an instance of the dangers, for the Clergy themselves, introduced by this new movement, let me mention the fact that, according to <i>my</i> experience, Clergymen of this school are <i>specially</i> apt to retail comic anecdotes, in which the most sacred names and words—sometimes actual texts from the Bible—are used as themes for jesting. Many such things are repeated as having been originally said by <i>children</i>, whose utter ignorance of evil must no doubt acquit <i>them</i>, in the sight of God, of all blame; but it must be otherwise for those who <i>consciously</i> use such innocent utterances as material for their unholy mirth.</p>
			<p>Let me add, however, <i>most</i> earnestly, that I fully believe that this profanity is, in many cases, <i>un</i>conscious: the ‘environment’ (as I have tried to explain at <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_123">p. 123</a>) makes all the difference between man and man; and I rejoice to think that many of these profane stories—which <i>I</i> find so painful to listen to, and should feel it a sin to repeat—give to <i>their</i> ears no pain, and to <i>their</i> consciences no shock; and that <i>they</i> can utter, not less sincerely than myself, the two prayers, “<i>Hallowed be Thy Name</i>” and “<i>from hardness of heart, and contempt of Thy Word and Commandment, Good Lord, deliver us!</i>” To which I would desire to add, for their sake and for my own, Keble’s beautiful petition, “<i>help us, this and every day, To live more nearly as we pray!</i>” It is, in fact, for its <i>consequences</i>—for the grave dangers, both to speaker and to hearer, which it involves—rather than for what it is <i>in itself</i>, that I mourn over this clerical habit of profanity in social talk. To the <i>believing</i> hearer it brings the danger of loss of reverence for holy things, by the mere act of listening to, and enjoying, such jests; and also the temptation to retail them for the amusement of others. To the <i>unbelieving</i> hearer it brings a welcome confirmation of his theory that religion is a fable, in the spectacle of its accredited champions thus betraying their trust. And to the speaker himself it must surely bring the danger of <i>loss of faith</i>. For surely such jests, if uttered with no consciousness of harm, must necessarily be also uttered with no consciousness, at the moment, of the <i>reality</i> of God, as a <i>living being</i>, who hears all we say. And he, who allows himself the habit of thus uttering holy words, with no thought of their meaning, is but too likely to find that, for him, God has become a myth, and heaven a poetic fancy—that, for him, the light of life is gone, and that he is at heart an atheist, lost in “<i>a darkness that may be felt</i>.”</p>
			<p>There is, I fear, at the present time, an increasing tendency to irreverent treatment of the name of God and of subjects connected with religion. Some of our theatres are helping this downward movement by the gross caricatures of clergymen which they put upon the stage: some of our clergy are themselves helping it, by showing that they can lay aside the spirit of reverence, along with their surplices, and can treat as jests, when <i>outside</i> their churches, names and things to which they pay an almost superstitious veneration when <i>inside</i>: the “Salvation Army” has, I fear, with the best intentions, done much to help it, by the coarse familiarity with which they treat holy things: and surely every one, who desires to <i>live</i> in the spirit of the prayer “<i>Hallowed be thy Name</i>,” ought to do what he can, however little that may be, to check it. So I have gladly taken this unique opportunity, however unfit the topic may seem for the Preface to a book of this kind, to express some thoughts which have weighed on my mind for a long time. I did not expect, when I wrote the Preface to Vol. I, that it would be read to any appreciable extent: but I rejoice to believe, from evidence that has reached me, that it <i>has</i> been read by many, and to hope that this Preface will also be so: and I think that, among them, some will be found ready to sympathise with the views I have put forwards, and ready to help, with their prayers and their example, the revival, in Society, of the waning spirit of reverence.</p>
			<p>
				<span class="jr"><i>Christmas</i>, 1893.</span>
			</p>
			<h1 title="">SYLVIE AND BRUNO<br/>
			CONCLUDED.</h1>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
