<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: The Dog-King</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dog-King</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“They shooked hands,” said Bruno, who was trotting at my side, in answer to the unspoken question.</p>
			<p>“And they looked <em>ever</em> so pleased!” Sylvie added from the other side.</p>
			<p>“Well, we must get on, now, as quick as we can,” I said. “If only I knew the best way to Hunter’s farm!”</p>
			<p>“They’ll be sure to know in this cottage,” said Sylvie.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I suppose they will. Bruno, would you run in and ask?”</p>
			<p>Sylvie stopped him, laughingly, as he ran off. “Wait a minute,” she said. “I must make you <em>visible</em> first, you know.”</p>
			<p id="chapter-2-4-p-7">“And <em>audible</em> too, I suppose?” I said, as she took the jewel, that hung round her neck, and waved it over his head, and touched his eyes and lips with it.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Sylvie: “and <em>once</em>, do you know, I made him <em>audible</em>, and forgot to make him <em>visible</em>! And he went to buy some sweeties in a shop. And the man <em>was</em> so frightened! A voice seemed to come out of the air, ‘Please, I want two ounces of barley-sugar drops!’ And a shilling came <em>bang</em> down upon the counter! And the man said ‘I can’t <em>see</em> you!’ And Bruno said ‘It doosn’t sinnify seeing <em>me</em>, so long as oo can see the <em>shilling</em>!’ But the man said he never sold barley-sugar drops to people he couldn’t <em>see</em>. So we had to⁠—<em>Now</em>, Bruno, you’re ready!” And away he trotted.</p>
			<p>Sylvie spent the time, while we were waiting for him, in making <em>herself</em> visible also. “It’s rather awkward, you know,” she explained to me, “when we meet people, and they can see <em>one</em> of us, and can’t see the <em>other</em>!”</p>
			<p>In a minute or two Bruno returned, looking rather disconsolate. “He’d got friends with him, and he were <em>cross</em>!” he said. “He asked me who I were. And I said ‘I’m Bruno: who is <em>these</em> peoples?’ And he said ‘One’s my half-brother, and t’other’s my half-sister: and I don’t want no more company! Go along with yer!’ And I said ‘I can’t go along <em>wizout</em> mine self!’ And I said ‘Oo shouldn’t have <em>bits</em> of peoples lying about like that! It’s welly untidy!’ And he said ‘Oh, don’t talk to <em>me</em>!’ And he pushted me outside! And he shutted the door!”</p>
			<p>“And you never asked where Hunter’s farm was?” queried Sylvie.</p>
			<p>“Hadn’t room for any questions,” said Bruno. “The room were so crowded.”</p>
			<p>“Three people <em>couldn’t</em> crowd a room,” said Sylvie.</p>
			<p>“They <em>did</em>, though,” Bruno persisted. “<em>He</em> crowded it most. He’s such a welly <em>thick</em> man⁠—so as oo couldn’t knock him down.”</p>
			<p>I failed to see the drift of Bruno’s argument. “Surely <em>anybody</em> could be knocked down,” I said: “thick or thin wouldn’t matter.”</p>
			<p>“Oo couldn’t knock <em>him</em> down,” said Bruno. “He’s more wider than he’s high: so, when he’s lying down, he’s more higher than when he’s standing: so a-course oo couldn’t knock him <em>down</em>!”</p>
			<p>“Here’s another cottage,” I said: “<em>I’ll</em> ask the way, <em>this</em> time.”</p>
			<p>There was no need to go in, this time, as the woman was standing in the doorway, with a baby in her arms, talking to a respectably dressed man⁠—a farmer, as I guessed⁠—who seemed to be on his way to the town.</p>
			<p>“⁠—and when there’s <em>drink</em> to be had,” he was saying, “he’s just the worst o’ the lot, is your Willie. So they tell me. He gets fairly mad wi’ it!”</p>
			<p>“I’d have given ’em the lie to their faces, a twelvemonth back!” the woman said in a broken voice. “But a’ canna noo! A’ canna noo!” She checked herself, on catching sight of us, and hastily retreated into the house, shutting the door after her.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you can tell me where Hunter’s farm is?” I said to the man, as he turned away from the house.</p>
			<p>“I can <em>that</em>, Sir!” he replied with a smile. “I’m John Hunter hissel, at your sarvice. It’s nobbut half a mile further⁠—the only house in sight, when you get round bend o’ the road yonder. You’ll find my good woman within, if so be you’ve business wi’ <em>her</em>. Or mebbe I’ll do as well?”</p>
			<p>“Thanks,” I said. “I want to order some milk. Perhaps I had better arrange it with your wife?”</p>
			<p>“Aye,” said the man. “<em>She</em> minds all <em>that</em>. Good day t’ye, Master⁠—and to your bonnie childer, as well!” And he trudged on.</p>
			<p>“He should have said ‘<em>child</em>,’ not ‘<em>childer</em>,’” said Bruno. “Sylvie’s not a <em>childer</em>!”</p>
			<p>“He meant <em>both</em> of us,” said Sylvie.</p>
			<p>“No, he didn’t!” Bruno persisted. “ ’cause he said ‘bonnie’, oo know!”</p>
			<p>“Well, at any rate he <em>looked</em> at us both,” Sylvie maintained.</p>
			<p>“Well, then he <em>must</em> have seen we’re not <em>both</em> bonnie!” Bruno retorted. “A-<em>course</em> I’m much uglier than <em>oo</em>! Didn’t he mean <em>Sylvie</em>, Mister Sir?” he shouted over his shoulder, as he ran off.</p>
			<p>But there was no use in replying, as he had already vanished round the bend of the road. When we overtook him he was climbing a gate, and was gazing earnestly into the field, where a horse, a cow, and a kid were browsing amicably together. “For its father, a <em>Horse</em>,” he murmured to himself. “For its mother, a <em>Cow</em>. For their dear little child, a <em>little</em> Goat, is the most curiousest thing I ever seen in my world!”</p>
			<p>“Bruno’s World!” I pondered. “Yes, I suppose every child has a world of his own⁠—and every man, too, for the matter of that. I wonder if <em>that’s</em> the cause for all the misunderstanding there is in Life?”</p>
			<p>“That <em>must</em> be Hunter’s farm!” said Sylvie, pointing to a house on the brow of the hill, led up to by a cart-road. “There’s no other farm in sight, <em>this</em> way; and you <em>said</em> we must be nearly there by this time.”</p>
			<p>I had <em>thought</em> it, while Bruno was climbing the gate, but I couldn’t remember having <em>said</em> it. However, Sylvie was evidently in the right. “Get down, Bruno,” I said, “and open the gate for us.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a good thing we’s with oo, <em>isn’t</em> it, Mister Sir?” said Bruno, as we entered the field. “That big dog might have bited oo, if oo’d been alone! Oo needn’t be <em>flightened</em> of it!” he whispered, clinging tight to my hand to encourage me. “It aren’t fierce!”</p>
			<p>“Fierce!” Sylvie scornfully echoed, as the dog⁠—a magnificent Newfoundland⁠—that had come galloping down the field to meet us, began curveting round us, in gambols full of graceful beauty, and welcoming us with short joyful barks. “Fierce! Why, it’s as gentle as a lamb! It’s⁠—why, Bruno, don’t you know it? It’s⁠—”</p>
			<p>“So it <em>are</em>!” cried Bruno, rushing forwards and throwing his arms round its neck. “Oh, you <em>dear</em> dog!” And it seemed as if the two children would never have done hugging and stroking it.</p>
			<p>“And how <em>ever</em> did he get <em>here</em>?” said Bruno. “Ask him, Sylvie. I doosn’t know how.”</p>
			<p>And then began an eager talk in Doggee, which of course was lost upon <em>me</em>; and I could only <em>guess</em>, when the beautiful creature, with a sly glance at me, whispered something in Sylvie’s ear, that <em>I</em> was now the subject of conversation. Sylvie looked round laughingly.</p>
			<p>“He asked me who you are,” she explained. “And I said ‘He’s our <em>friend</em>.’ And he said ‘What’s his name?’ And I said ‘It’s <em>Mister Sir</em>.’ And he said ‘Bosh!’ ”</p>
			<p>“What is ‘Bosh!’ in Doggee?” I enquired.</p>
			<p>“It’s the same as in English,” said Sylvie. “Only, when a <em>dog</em> says it, it’s a sort of a whisper, that’s half a <em>cough</em> and half a <em>bark</em>. Nero, say ‘<em>Bosh!</em>’ ”</p>
			<p>And Nero, who had now begun gamboling round us again, said “<em>Bosh!</em>” several times; and I found that Sylvie’s description of the sound was perfectly accurate.</p>
			<p>“I wonder what’s behind this long wall?” I said, as we walked on.</p>
			<p>“It’s the <em>Orchard</em>,” Sylvie replied, after a consultation with Nero. “See, there’s a boy getting down off the wall, at that far corner. And now he’s running away across the field. I do believe he’s been stealing the apples!”</p>
			<p>Bruno set off after him, but returned to us in a few moments, as he had evidently no chance of overtaking the young rascal.</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t catch him!” he said. “I wiss I’d started a little sooner. His pockets <em>was</em> full of apples!”</p>
			<p>The Dog-King looked up at Sylvie, and said something in Doggee.</p>
			<p>“Why, of <em>course</em> you can!” Sylvie exclaimed. “How stupid not to think of it! <em>Nero</em>’ll hold him for us, Bruno! But I’d better make him invisible, first.” And she hastily got out the Magic Jewel, and began waving it over Nero’s head, and down along his back.</p>
			<p>“That’ll do!” cried Bruno, impatiently. “After him, good Doggie!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Bruno!” Sylvie exclaimed reproachfully. “You shouldn’t have sent him off so quick! I hadn’t done the tail!”</p>
			<p>Meanwhile Nero was coursing like a greyhound down the field: so at least I concluded from all <em>I</em> could see of him⁠—the long feathery tail, which floated like a meteor through the air⁠—and in a very few seconds he had come up with the little thief.</p>
			<p>“He’s got him safe, by one foot!” cried Sylvie, who was eagerly watching the chase. “Now there’s no hurry, Bruno!”</p>
			<p>So we walked, quite leisurely, down the field, to where the frightened lad stood. A more curious sight I had seldom seen, in all my “eerie” experiences. Every bit of him was in violent action, except the left foot, which was apparently glued to the ground⁠—there being nothing visibly holding it: while, at some little distance, the long feathery tail was waving gracefully from side to side, showing that Nero, at least, regarded the whole affair as nothing but a magnificent game of play.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter with you?” I said, as gravely as I could.</p>
			<p>“Got the crahmp in me ahnkle!” the thief groaned in reply. “An’ me fut’s gone to sleep!” And he began to blubber aloud.</p>
			<p>“Now, look here!” Bruno said in a commanding tone, getting in front of him. “Oo’ve got to give up those apples!”</p>
			<p>The lad glanced at me, but didn’t seem to reckon <em>my</em> interference as worth anything. Then he glanced at Sylvie: <em>she</em> clearly didn’t count for very much, either. Then he took courage. “It’ll take a better man than any of <em>yer</em> to get ’em!” he retorted defiantly.</p>
			<p>Sylvie stooped and patted the invisible Nero. “A <em>little</em> tighter!” she whispered. And a sharp yell from the ragged boy showed how promptly the Dog-King had taken the hint.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter <em>now</em>?” I said. “Is your ankle worse?”</p>
			<p>“And it’ll get worse, and worse, and worse,” Bruno solemnly assured him, “till oo gives up those apples!”</p>
			<p>Apparently the thief was convinced of this at last, and he sulkily began emptying his pockets of the apples. The children watched from a little distance, Bruno dancing with delight at every fresh yell extracted from Nero’s terrified prisoner.</p>
			<p>“That’s all,” the boy said at last.</p>
			<p>“It <em>isn’t</em> all!” cried Bruno. “There’s three more in that pocket!”</p>
			<p>Another hint from Sylvie to the Dog-King⁠—another sharp yell from the thief, now convicted of lying also⁠—and the remaining three apples were surrendered.</p>
			<p>“Let him go, please,” Sylvie said in Doggee, and the lad limped away at a great pace, stooping now and then to rub the ailing ankle, in fear, seemingly, that the “crahmp” might attack it again.</p>
			<p>Bruno ran back, with his booty, to the orchard wall, and pitched the apples over it one by one. “I’s welly afraid <em>some</em> of them’s gone under the wrong trees!” he panted, on overtaking us again.</p>
			<p>“The <em>wrong</em> trees!” laughed Sylvie. “Trees <em>can’t</em> do wrong! There’s no such things as <em>wrong</em> trees!”</p>
			<p>“Then there’s no such things as <em>right</em> trees, neither!” cried Bruno. And Sylvie gave up the point.</p>
			<p>“Wait a minute, please!” she said to me. “I must make Nero <em>visible</em>, you know!”</p>
			<p>“No, <em>please</em> don’t!” cried Bruno, who had by this time mounted on the Royal back, and was twisting the Royal hair into a bridle. “It’ll be <em>such</em> fun to have him like this!”</p>
			<p>“Well, it <em>does</em> look funny,” Sylvie admitted, and led the way to the farmhouse, where the farmer’s wife stood, evidently much perplexed at the weird procession now approaching her. “It’s summat gone wrong wi’ my spectacles, I doubt!” she murmured, as she took them off, and began diligently rubbing them with a corner of her apron.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile Sylvie had hastily pulled Bruno down from his steed, and had just time to make His Majesty wholly visible before the spectacles were resumed.</p>
			<p>All was natural, now; but the good woman still looked a little uneasy about it. “My eyesight’s getting bad,” she said, “but I see you <em>now</em>, my darlings! You’ll give me a kiss, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>Bruno got behind me, in a moment: however Sylvie put up <em>her</em> face, to be kissed, as representative of <em>both</em>, and we all went in together.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
