<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: The Three Badgers.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Three Badgers.</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Still more dreamily I found myself following this imperious voice into a room where the Earl, his daughter, and Arthur, were seated. “So you’re come <em>at last</em>!” said Lady Muriel, in a tone of playful reproach.</p>
			<p>“I was delayed,” I stammered. Though <em>what</em> it was that had delayed me I should have been puzzled to explain! Luckily no questions were asked.</p>
			<p>The carriage was ordered round, the hamper, containing our contribution to the Picnic, was duly stowed away, and we set forth.</p>
			<p>There was no need for <em>me</em> to maintain the conversation. Lady Muriel and Arthur were evidently on those most delightful of terms, where one has no need to check thought after thought, as it rises to the lips, with the fear ‘<em>this</em> will not be appreciated⁠—<em>this</em> will give offence⁠—<em>this</em> will sound too serious⁠—this will sound flippant’: like very old friends, in fullest sympathy, their talk rippled on.</p>
			<p>“Why shouldn’t we desert the Picnic and go in some other direction?” she suddenly suggested. “A party of four is surely self-sufficing? And as for <em>food</em>, our hamper⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Why <em>shouldn’t</em> we? What a genuine <em>lady’s</em> argument!” laughed Arthur. “A lady never knows on which side the <em xml:lang="la">onus probandi</em>⁠—the burden of proving⁠—lies!”</p>
			<p>“Do <em>men</em> always know?” she asked with a pretty assumption of meek docility.</p>
			<p>“With <em>one</em> exception⁠—the only one I can think of⁠—<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Watts, who has asked the senseless question</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Why should I deprive my neighbour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his goods against his will?’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Fancy <em>that</em> as an argument for Honesty! His position seems to be ‘I’m only honest because I see no reason to steal.’ And the <em>thief’s</em> answer is of course complete and crushing. ‘I deprive my neighbour of his goods because I want them myself. And I do it against his will because there’s no chance of getting him to consent to it!’ ”</p>
			<p>“I can give you one other exception,” I said: “an argument I heard only today⁠—and <em>not</em> by a lady. ‘Why shouldn’t I walk on my own forehead?’ ”</p>
			<p>“What a curious subject for speculation!” said Lady Muriel, turning to me, with eyes brimming over with laughter. “May we know who propounded the question? And <em>did</em> he walk on his own forehead?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t remember <em>who</em> it was that said it!” I faltered. “Nor <em>where</em> I heard it!”</p>
			<p>“Whoever it was, I hope we shall meet him at the Picnic!” said Lady Muriel. “It’s a <em>far</em> more interesting question than ‘<em>Isn’t</em> this a picturesque ruin?’ ‘<em>Aren’t</em> those autumn-tints lovely?’ I shall have to answer those two questions <em>ten</em> times, at least, this afternoon!”</p>
			<p>“That’s one of the miseries of Society!” said Arthur. “Why can’t people let one enjoy the beauties of Nature without having to <em>say</em> so every minute? Why should Life be one long Catechism?”</p>
			<p>“It’s just as bad at a picture-gallery,” the Earl remarked. “I went to the R.A. last May, with a conceited young artist: and he <em>did</em> torment me! I wouldn’t have minded his criticizing the pictures <em>himself</em>: but <em>I</em> had to agree with him⁠—or else to argue the point, which would have been worse!”</p>
			<p>“It was <em>depreciatory</em> criticism, of course?” said Arthur.</p>
			<p>“I don’t see the ‘of course’ at all.”</p>
			<p>“Why, did you ever know a conceited man dare to <em>praise</em> a picture? The one thing he dreads (next to not being noticed) is <em>to be proved fallible</em>! If you once <em>praise</em> a picture, your character for <em>infallibility</em> hangs by a thread. Suppose it’s a figure-picture, and you venture to say ‘draws well.’ Somebody measures it, and finds one of the proportions an eighth of an inch wrong. <em>You</em> are disposed of as a critic! ‘Did you say he draws <em>well</em>?’ your friends enquire sarcastically, while you hang your head and blush. No. The only <em>safe</em> course, if anyone says ‘draws well,’ is to shrug your shoulders. ‘<em>Draws</em> well?’ you repeat thoughtfully. ‘Draws <em>well</em>? Humph!’ That’s the way to become a great critic!”</p>
			<p>Thus airily chatting, after a pleasant drive through a few miles of beautiful scenery, we reached the <em>rendezvous</em>⁠—a ruined castle⁠—where the rest of the picnic-party were already assembled. We spent an hour or two in sauntering about the ruins: gathering at last, by common consent, into a few random groups, seated on the side of a mound, which commanded a good view of the old castle and its surroundings.</p>
			<p>The momentary silence, that ensued, was promptly taken possession of⁠—or, more correctly, taken into custody⁠—by a Voice; a voice so smooth, so monotonous, so sonorous, that one felt, with a shudder, that any other conversation was precluded, and that, unless some desperate remedy were adopted, we were fated to listen to a Lecture, of which no man could foresee the end!</p>
			<p>The speaker was a broadly-built man, whose large, flat, pale face was bounded on the North by a fringe of hair, on the East and West by a fringe of whisker, and on the South by a fringe of beard⁠—the whole constituting a uniform halo of stubbly whitey-brown bristles. His features were so entirely destitute of expression that I could not help saying to myself⁠—helplessly, as if in the clutches of a nightmare⁠—“they are only penciled in: no final touches as yet!” And he had a way of ending every sentence with a sudden smile, which spread like a ripple over that vast blank surface, and was gone in a moment, leaving behind it such absolute solemnity that I felt impelled to murmur “it was not <em>he</em>: it was somebody else that smiled!”</p>
			<p>“Do you observe?” (such was the phrase with which the wretch began each sentence) “Do you observe the way in which that broken arch, at the very top of the ruin, stands out against the clear sky? It is placed <em>exactly</em> right: and there is <em>exactly</em> enough of it. A little more, or a little less, and all would be utterly spoiled!”</p>
			<p>“Oh gifted architect!” murmured Arthur, inaudibly to all but Lady Muriel and myself. “Foreseeing the exact effect his work would have, when in ruins, centuries after his death!”</p>
			<p>“And do you observe, where those trees slope down the hill,” (indicating them with a sweep of the hand, and with all the patronising air of the man who has himself arranged the landscape), “how the mists rising from the river fill up <em>exactly</em> those intervals where we <em>need</em> indistinctness, for artistic effect? Here, in the foreground, a few clear touches are not amiss: but a <em>back</em>-ground without mist, you know! It is simply barbarous! Yes, we <em>need</em> indistinctness!”</p>
			<p>The orator looked so pointedly at <em>me</em> as he uttered these words, that I felt bound to reply, by murmuring something to the effect that I hardly felt the need <em>myself</em>⁠—and that I enjoyed looking at a thing, better, when I could <em>see</em> it.</p>
			<p>“Quite so!” the great man sharply took me up. “From <em>your</em> point of view, that is correctly put. But for anyone who has a soul for <em>Art</em>, such a view is preposterous. <em>Nature</em> is one thing. <em>Art</em> is another. <em>Nature</em> shows us the world as it <em>is</em>. But <em>Art</em>⁠—as a Latin author tells us⁠—<em>Art</em>, you know⁠—the words have escaped my memory⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<em xml:lang="la">Ars est celare Naturam</em>,” Arthur interposed with a delightful promptitude.</p>
			<p>“Quite so!” the orator replied with an air of relief. “I thank you! <em xml:lang="la">Ars est celare Naturam</em>⁠—but that isn’t it.” And, for a few peaceful moments, the orator brooded, frowningly, over the quotation. The welcome opportunity was seized, and <em>another</em> voice struck into the silence.</p>
			<p>“What a <em>lovely</em> old ruin it is!” cried a young lady in spectacles, the very embodiment of the March of Mind, looking at Lady Muriel, as the proper recipient of all really <em>original</em> remarks. “And <em>don’t</em> you admire those autumn-tints on the trees? <em>I</em> do, <em>intensely</em>!”</p>
			<p>Lady Muriel shot a meaning glance at me; but replied with admirable gravity. “Oh yes indeed, indeed! <em>So</em> true!”</p>
			<p>“And isn’t it strange,” said the young lady, passing with startling suddenness from Sentiment to Science, “that the mere impact of certain coloured rays upon the Retina should give us such exquisite pleasure?”</p>
			<p>“You have studied Physiology, then?” a certain young Doctor courteously enquired.</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>yes</em>! Isn’t it a <em>sweet</em> Science?”</p>
			<p>Arthur slightly smiled. “It seems a paradox, does it not,” he went on, “that the image formed on the Retina should be inverted?”</p>
			<p>“It <em>is</em> puzzling,” she candidly admitted. “Why is it we do not <em>see</em> things upside-down?”</p>
			<p>“You have never heard the Theory, then, that the <em>Brain</em> also is inverted?”</p>
			<p>“No <em>indeed</em>! What a <em>beautiful</em> fact! But how is it <em>proved</em>?”</p>
			<p>“<em>Thus</em>,” replied Arthur, with all the gravity of ten Professors rolled into one. “What we call the <em>vertex</em> of the Brain is really its <em>base</em>: and what we call its <em>base</em> is really its <em>vertex</em>: it is simply a question of <em>nomenclature</em>.”</p>
			<p>This last polysyllable settled the matter. “How truly delightful!” the fair Scientist exclaimed with enthusiasm. “I shall ask our Physiological Lecturer why he never gave us that <em>exquisite</em> Theory!”</p>
			<p>“I’d give something to be present when the question is asked!” Arthur whispered to me, as, at a signal from Lady Muriel, we moved on to where the hampers had been collected, and devoted ourselves to the more <em>substantial</em> business of the day.</p>
			<p>We ‘waited’ on ourselves, as the modern barbarism (combining two good things in such a way as to secure the discomforts of both and the advantages of neither) of having a picnic with servants to wait upon you, had not yet reached this out-of-the-way region⁠—and of course the gentlemen did not even take their places until the ladies had been duly provided with all imaginable creature-comforts. Then I supplied myself with a plate of something solid and a glass of something fluid, and found a place next to Lady Muriel.</p>
			<p>It had been left vacant⁠—apparently for Arthur, as a distinguished stranger: but he had turned shy, and had placed himself next to the young lady in spectacles, whose high rasping voice had already cast loose upon Society such ominous phrases as “Man is a bundle of Qualities!”, “the Objective is only attainable through the Subjective!”. Arthur was bearing it bravely: but several faces wore a look of alarm, and I thought it high time to start some less metaphysical topic.</p>
			<p>“In my nursery days,” I began, “when the weather didn’t suit for an out-of-doors picnic, we were allowed to have a peculiar kind, that we enjoyed hugely. The table cloth was laid <em>under</em> the table, instead of upon it: we sat round it on the floor: and I believe we really enjoyed that extremely uncomfortable kind of dinner more than we ever did the orthodox arrangement!”</p>
			<p>“I’ve no doubt of it,” Lady Muriel replied. “There’s nothing a well-regulated child hates so much as regularity. I believe a really healthy boy would thoroughly enjoy Greek Grammar⁠—if only he might stand on his head to learn it! And your carpet-dinner certainly spared you <em>one</em> feature of a picnic, which is to me its chief drawback.”</p>
			<p>“The chance of a shower?” I suggested.</p>
			<p>“No, the chance⁠—or rather the certainty⁠—of <em>live</em> things occurring in combination with one’s food! <em>Spiders</em> are <em>my</em> bugbear. Now my father has <em>no</em> sympathy with that sentiment⁠—<em>have</em> you, dear?” For the Earl had caught the word and turned to listen.</p>
			<p>“To each his sufferings, all are men,” he replied in the sweet sad tones that seemed natural to him: “each has his pet aversion.”</p>
			<p>“But you’ll never guess <em>his</em>!” Lady Muriel said, with that delicate silvery laugh that was music to my ears.</p>
			<p>I declined to attempt the impossible.</p>
			<p>“He doesn’t like <em>snakes</em>!” she said, in a stage whisper. “Now, isn’t <em>that</em> an unreasonable aversion? Fancy not liking such a dear, coaxingly, <em>clingingly</em> affectionate creature as a snake!”</p>
			<p>“Not like <em>snakes</em>!” I exclaimed. “Is such a thing possible?”</p>
			<p>“No, he <em>doesn’t</em> like them,” she repeated with a pretty mock-gravity. “He’s not <em>afraid</em> of them, you know. But he doesn’t <em>like</em> them. He says they’re too waggly!”</p>
			<p>I was more startled than I liked to show. There was something so <em>uncanny</em> in this echo of the very words I had so lately heard from that little forest-sprite, that it was only by a great effort I succeeded in saying, carelessly, “Let us banish so unpleasant a topic. Won’t you sing us something, Lady Muriel? I know you <em>do</em> sing without music.”</p>
			<p>“The only songs I know⁠—without music⁠—are <em>desperately</em> sentimental, I’m afraid! Are your tears all ready?”</p>
			<p>“Quite ready! Quite ready!” came from all sides, and Lady Muriel⁠—not being one of those lady-singers who think it <em>de rigueur</em> to decline to sing till they have been petitioned three or four times, and have pleaded failure of memory, loss of voice, and other conclusive reasons for silence⁠—began at once:⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“There be three Badgers on a mossy stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beside a dark and covered way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each dreams himself a monarch on his throne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And so they stay and stay⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though their old Father languishes alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They stay, and stay, and stay.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“There be three Herrings loitering around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Longing to share that mossy seat:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each Herring tries to sing what she has found</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That makes Life seem so sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, with a grating and uncertain sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They bleat, and bleat, and bleat.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“The Mother-Herring, on the salt sea-wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sought vainly for her absent ones:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Father-Badger, writhing in a cave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Shrieked out ‘Return, my sons!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall have buns,’ he shrieked, ‘if you’ll behave!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Yea, buns, and buns, and buns!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘I fear,’ said she, ‘your sons have gone astray?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My daughters left me while I slept.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Yes ’m,’ the Badger said: ‘it’s as you say.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">‘They should be better kept.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus the poor parents talked the time away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And wept, and wept, and wept.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Here Bruno broke off suddenly. “The Herrings’ Song wants anuvver tune, Sylvie,” he said. “And I can’t sing it⁠—not wizout oo plays it for me!”</p>
			<p>Instantly Sylvie seated herself upon a tiny mushroom, that happened to grow in front of a daisy, as if it were the most ordinary musical instrument in the world, and played on the petals as if they were the notes of an organ. And such delicious <em>tiny</em> music it was! Such teeny-tiny music!</p>
			<p>Bruno held his head on one side, and listened very gravely for a few moments until he had caught the melody. Then the sweet childish voice rang out once more:⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“Oh, dear beyond our dearest dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fairer than all that fairest seems!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feast the rosy hours away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To revel in a roundelay!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">How blest would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A life so free⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ipwergis-Pudding to consume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drink the subtle Azzigoom!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“And if, in other days and hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mid other fluffs and other flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The choice were given me how to dine⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Name what thou wilt: it shall be thine!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Oh, then I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The life for me⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ipwergis-Pudding to consume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drink the subtle Azzigoom!”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Oo may leave off playing <em>now</em>, Sylvie. I can do the uvver tune much better wizout a compliment.”</p>
			<p>“He means ‘without <em>accompaniment</em>,’ ” Sylvie whispered, smiling at my puzzled look: and she pretended to shut up the stops of the organ.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“The Badgers did not care to talk to Fish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They did not dote on Herrings’ songs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They never had experienced the dish</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To which that name belongs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘And oh, to pinch their tails,’ (this was their wish,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">‘With tongs, yea, tongs, and tongs!’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>I ought to mention that he marked the parenthesis, in the air, with his finger. It seemed to me a very good plan. You know there’s no <em>sound</em> to represent it⁠—any more than there is for a question.</p>
			<p>Suppose you have said to your friend, “You are better today,” and that you want him to understand that you are asking him a <em>question</em>, what can be simpler than just to make a ‘?’ in the air with your finger? He would understand you in a moment!</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘And are not these the Fish,’ the Eldest sighed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘Whose Mother dwells beneath the foam?’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘They <span class="norm">are</span> the Fish!’ the Second one replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">‘And they have left their home!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Oh wicked Fish,’ the Youngest Badger cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">‘To roam, yea, roam, and roam!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“Gently the Badgers trotted to the shore⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sandy shore that fringed the bay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each in his mouth a living Herring bore⁠—⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Those aged ones waxed gay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear rang their voices through the ocean’s roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">‘Hooray, hooray, hooray!’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“So they all got safe home again,” Bruno said, after waiting a minute to see if <em>I</em> had anything to say: he evidently felt that <em>some</em> remark ought to be made. And I couldn’t help wishing there were some such rule in Society, at the conclusion of a song⁠—that the singer <em>herself</em> should say the right thing, and not leave it to the audience. Suppose a young lady has just been warbling (‘with a grating and uncertain sound’) Shelley’s exquisite lyric ‘<em>I arise from dreams of thee</em>’: how much nicer it would be, instead of <em>your</em> having to say “Oh, <em>thank</em> you, <em>thank</em> you!” for the young lady herself to remark, as she draws on her gloves, while the impassioned words ‘<em>Oh, press it to thine own, or it will break at last!</em>’ are still ringing in your ears, “⁠—but she wouldn’t do it, you know. So it <em>did</em> break at last.”</p>
			<p>“And I <em>knew</em> it would!” she added quietly, as I started at the sudden crash of broken glass. “You’ve been holding it sideways for the last minute, and letting all the champagne run out! Were you asleep, I wonder? I’m <em>so</em> sorry my singing has such a narcotic effect!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
