<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI: Peter and Paul.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Peter and Paul.</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“As I was saying,” the Other Professor resumed, “if you’ll just think over any Poem, that contains the words⁠—such as</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Peter is poor,’ said noble Paul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘And I have always been his friend:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, though my means to give are small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At least I can afford to <span class="norm">lend.</span></span>
					<br/>
					<span>How few, in this cold age of greed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Do good, except on selfish grounds!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I can feel for Peter’s need,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And <span class="sc"><i>I will lend him fifty pounds</i></span>!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>How great was Peter’s joy to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His friend in such a genial vein!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How cheerfully the bond he signed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To pay the money back again!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘We ca’n’t,’ said Paul, ‘be too precise:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis best to fix the very day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, by a learned friend’s advice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve made it Noon, the Fourth of May.’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘But this is April!’ Peter said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘The First of April, as I think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five little weeks will soon be fled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One scarcely will have time to wink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me a year to speculate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To buy and sell⁠—to drive a trade⁠—’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Paul ‘I cannot change the date.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On May the Fourth it must be paid.’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Well, well!’ said Peter, with a sigh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘Hand me the cash, and I will go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll form a Joint-Stock Company,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And turn an honest pound or so.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I’m grieved,’ said Paul, ‘to seem unkind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The money shall of course be lent:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, for a week or two, I find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It will not be convenient.’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>So, week by week, poor Peter came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And turned in heaviness away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For still the answer was the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘I cannot manage it to-day.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the April showers were dry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The five short weeks were nearly spent⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet still he got the old reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘It is not quite convenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>The Fourth arrived, and punctual Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came, with his legal friend, at noon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I thought it best,’ said he, ‘to call:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One cannot settle things too soon.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor Peter shuddered in despair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His flowing locks he wildly tore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And very soon his yellow hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was lying all about the floor.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>The legal friend was standing by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sudden pity half unmanned:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tear-drop trembled in his eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The signed agreement in his hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when at length the legal soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Resumed its customary force,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘The Law,’ he said, ‘we ca’n’t control:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pay, or the Law must take its course!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Said Paul, ‘How bitterly I rue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fatal morning when I called!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, Peter, what you do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You won’t be richer when you’re bald!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think you, by rending curls away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make your difficulties less?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forbear this violence, I pray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You do but add to my distress!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Not willingly would I inflict,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Peter, ‘on that noble heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One needless pang. Yet why so strict?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is <span class="norm">this</span> to act a friendly part?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However legal it may be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To pay what never has been lent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This style of business seems to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Extremely inconvenient!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘No Nobleness of soul have I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like <span class="norm">some</span> that in this Age are found!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Paul blushed in sheer humility,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cast his eyes upon the ground.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘This debt will simply swallow all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And make my life a life of woe!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Nay, nay, my Peter!’ answered Paul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘You must not rail on Fortune so!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘You have enough to eat and drink:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You are respected in the world:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at the barber’s, as I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You often get your whiskers curled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though Nobleness you ca’n’t attain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To any very great extent⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The path of Honesty is plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">However inconvenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘ ’Tis true,’ said Peter, ‘I’m alive:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I keep my station in the world:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once in the week I just contrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To get my whiskers oiled and curled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my assets are very low:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My little income’s overspent:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To trench on capital, you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is always inconvenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘But pay your debts!’ cried honest Paul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘My gentle Peter, pay your debts!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What matter if it swallows all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you describe as your “assets”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Already you’re an hour behind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet Generosity is best.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It pinches me⁠—but never mind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><span class="sc"><i>I will not charge you interest!</i></span>’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘How good! How great!’ poor Peter cried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘Yet I must sell my Sunday wig⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scarf-pin that has been my pride⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My grand piano⁠—and my pig!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full soon his property took wings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And daily, as each treasure went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sighed to find the state of things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grow less and less convenient.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Weeks grew to months, and months to years:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Peter was worn to skin and bone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And once he even said, with tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘Remember, Paul, that promised Loan!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Paul ‘I’ll lend you, when I can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All the spare money I have got⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Peter, you’re a happy man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yours is an enviable lot!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘I’m getting stout, as you may see:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is but seldom I am well:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot feel my ancient glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In listening to the dinner-bell:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you, you gambol like a boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your figure is so spare and light:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dinner-bell’s a note of joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To such a healthy appetite!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter ‘I am well aware</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mine is a state of happiness:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet how gladly could I spare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some of the comforts I possess!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What <span class="norm">you</span> call healthy appetite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><span class="norm">I</span> feel as Hunger’s savage tooth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, when no dinner is in sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dinner-bell’s a sound of ruth!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘No scare-crow would accept this coat:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such boots as these you seldom see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Paul, a single five-pound-note</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would make another man of me!’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Paul ‘It fills me with surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hear you talk in such a tone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fear you scarcely realise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blessings that are all your own!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘You’re safe from being overfed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’re sweetly picturesque in rags:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You never know the aching head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That comes along with money-bags:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you have time to cultivate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That best of qualities, Content⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For which you’ll find your present state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remarkably convenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter ‘Though I cannot sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The depths of such a man as you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet in your character I’ve found</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An inconsistency or two.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You seem to have long years to spare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When there’s a promise to fulfil:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet how punctual you were</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In calling with that little bill!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘One can’t be too deliberate,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Paul, ‘in parting with one’s pelf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bills, as you correctly state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m punctuality itself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man may surely claim his dues:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But, when there’s money to be <span class="norm">lent</span>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man must be allowed to choose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such times as are convenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>It chanced one day, as Peter sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gnawing a crust⁠—his usual meal⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul bustled in to have a chat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And grasped his hand with friendly zeal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘I knew,’ said he, ‘your frugal ways:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So, that I might not wound your pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By bringing strangers in to gaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve left my legal friend outside!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘You well remember, I am sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When first your wealth began to go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And people sneered at one so poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><span class="norm">I</span> never used my Peter so!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when you’d lost your little all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And found yourself a thing despised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I need not ask you to recall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How tenderly I sympathised!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Then the advice I’ve poured on you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So full of wisdom and of wit:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All given gratis, though ’tis true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I might have fairly charged for it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I refrain from mentioning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Full many a deed I might relate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For boasting is a kind of thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I particularly hate.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘How vast the total sum appears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of all the kindnesses I’ve done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Childhood’s half-forgotten years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down to that Loan of April One!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Fifty Pounds! You little guessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How deep it drained my slender store:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there’s a heart within this breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And <span class="sc"><i>I will lend you fifty more</i></span>!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>‘Not so,’ was Peter’s mild reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His cheeks all wet with grateful tears:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘No man recalls, so well as I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your services in bygone years:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this new offer, I admit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is very very kindly meant⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still, to avail myself of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would not be quite convenient!’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>You’ll see in a moment what the difference is between ‘convenient’ and ‘inconvenient.’ You quite understand it now, don’t you?” he added, looking kindly at Bruno, who was sitting, at Sylvie’s side, on the floor.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Bruno, very quietly. Such a short speech was very unusual, for him: but just then he seemed, I fancied, a little exhausted. In fact, he climbed up into Sylvie’s lap as he spoke, and rested his head against her shoulder. “What a many verses it was!” he whispered.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
