<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="volume-2" id="volume-2-preface" epub:type="preface">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Preface</h3>
			<p>I must begin with the same announcement as in the previous Volume (which I shall henceforward refer to as “<abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>,” calling the present Volume “<abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>”), <abbr>viz.</abbr> that the Locket, at <a href="chapter-2-25.xhtml#chapter-2-25-p-32">chapter 25</a>, was drawn by “Miss Alice Havers.” And my reason, for not stating this on the titlepage⁠—that it seems only due, to the artist of these wonderful pictures, that his name should stand there alone⁠—has, I think, even greater weight in <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> than it had in <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>. Let me call especial attention to the three “Little Birds” borders, at <a href="chapter-2-23.xhtml#chapter-2-23-p-6">chapter 23</a>. The way, in which he has managed to introduce the most minute details of the stanzas to be illustrated, seems to me a triumph of artistic ingenuity.</p>
			<p>Let me here express my sincere gratitude to the many Reviewers who have noticed, whether favorably or unfavorably, the previous Volume. Their unfavorable remarks were, most probably, well-deserved; the favorable ones less probably so. Both kinds have no doubt served to make the book known, and have helped the reading Public to form their opinions of it. Let me also here assure them that it is not from any want of respect for their criticisms, that I have carefully forborne from reading <em>any</em> of them. I am strongly of opinion that an author had far better <em>not</em> read any reviews of his books: the unfavorable ones are almost certain to make him cross, and the favorable ones conceited; and <em>neither</em> of these results is desirable.</p>
			<p>Criticisms have, however, reached me from private sources, to some of which I propose to offer a reply.</p>
			<p>One such critic complains that Arthur’s strictures, on sermons and on choristers, are too severe. Let me say, in reply, that I do <em>not</em> hold myself responsible for <em>any</em> of the opinions expressed by the characters in my book. They are simply opinions which, it seemed to me, might probably be held by the persons into whose mouths I put them, and which were worth consideration.</p>
			<p>Other critics have objected to certain innovations in spelling,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> such as “ca’n’t,” “wo’n’t,” “traveler.” In reply, I can only plead my firm conviction that the popular usage is <em>wrong</em>. As to “ca’n’t,” it will not be disputed that, in all <em>other</em> words ending in “n’t,” these letters are an abbreviation of “not”; and it is surely absurd to suppose that, in this solitary instance, “not” is represented by “ ’t”! In fact “ca’n’t” is the <em>proper</em> abbreviation for “can it,” just as “is’t” is for “is it.” Again, in “wo’n’t,” the first apostrophe is needed, because the word “would” is here <em>abridged</em> into “wo”: but I hold it proper to spell “don’t” with only <em>one</em> apostrophe, because the word “do” is here <em>complete</em>. As to such words as “traveler,” I hold the correct principle to be, to <em>double</em> the consonant when the accent falls on that syllable; otherwise to leave it <em>single</em>. This rule is observed in most cases (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">e.g.</abbr> we double the <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">r</i> in “preferred,” but leave it single in “offered”), so that I am only extending, to other cases, an existing rule. I admit, however, that I do not spell “parallel,” as the rule would have it; but here we are constrained, by the etymology, to insert the double <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">l</i>.</p>
			<p>In the Preface to <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> were two puzzles, on which my readers might exercise their ingenuity. One was, to detect the three lines of “padding,” which I had found it necessary to supply in the passage at <a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#chapter-1-3-p-24">chapter 3</a>. The other puzzle was, to determine which (if any) of the 8 stanzas of the Gardener’s Song (see stanza number <a href="chapter-1-5.xhtml#chapter-1-5-blockquote-2">1</a>, <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#chapter-1-6-blockquote-1">2</a>, <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#chapter-1-6-blockquote-2">3</a>, <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#chapter-1-7-blockquote-1">4</a>, <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#chapter-1-8-blockquote-1">5</a>, <a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#chapter-1-9-blockquote-1">6</a>, <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#chapter-1-12-blockquote-1">7</a> and <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#chapter-1-12-blockquote-3">8</a>) were adapted to the context, and which (if any) had the context adapted to them. The last of them is the only one that was adapted to the context, the “Garden-Door that opened with a key” having been substituted for some creature (a Cormorant, I think) “that nestled in a tree.” In stanzas <a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#chapter-1-6-blockquote-1">2</a>, <a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#chapter-1-8-blockquote-1">5</a> and <a href="chapter-1-12.xhtml#chapter-1-12-blockquote-1">7</a>, the context was adapted to the stanza. In the <a href="chapter-1-7.xhtml#chapter-1-7-blockquote-1">fourth</a>, neither stanza nor context was altered: the connection between them was simply a piece of good luck.</p>
			<p>In the Preface to <a href="volume-1-preface.xhtml"><abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span></a>, I gave an account of the making-up of the story of “Sylvie and Bruno.” A few more details may perhaps be acceptable to my Readers.</p>
			<p>It was in 1873, as I <em>now</em> believe, that the idea first occurred to me that a little fairytale (written, in 1867, for “Aunt Judy’s Magazine,” under the title “Bruno’s Revenge”) might serve as the nucleus of a longer story. This I surmise, from having found the original draft of the last paragraph of <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, dated 1873. So that this paragraph has been waiting 20 years for its chance of emerging into print⁠—more than twice the period so cautiously recommended by Horace for “repressing” one’s literary efforts!</p>
			<p>It was in February, 1885, that I entered into negotiations, with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Harry Furniss, for illustrating the book. Most of the substance of <em>both</em> Volumes was then in existence in manuscript: and my original intention was to publish the <em>whole</em> story at once. In September, 1885, I received from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Furniss the first set of drawings⁠—the four which illustrate “Peter and Paul” (see the incidents <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#chapter-1-11-p-3">1</a>, <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#chapter-1-11-p-10">2</a>, <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#chapter-1-11-p-16">3</a> and <a href="chapter-1-11.xhtml#chapter-1-11-p-26">4</a>): in November, 1886, I received the second set⁠—the three which illustrate the Professor’s song about the “little man” who had “a little gun” (In <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> chapter 17, drawings <a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-blockquote-1">1</a>, <a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-p-16">2</a>, <a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-p-17">3</a>): and in January, 1887, I received the third set⁠—the four which illustrate the “Pig-Tale.”</p>
			<p>So we went on, illustrating first one bit of the story, and then another, without any idea of sequence. And it was not till March, 1889, that, having calculated the number of pages the story would occupy, I decided on dividing it into <em>two</em> portions, and publishing it half at a time. This necessitated the writing of a <em>sort</em> of conclusion for the first Volume: and <em>most</em> of my Readers, I fancy, regarded this as the <em>actual</em> conclusion, when that Volume appeared in December, 1889. At any rate, among all the letters I received about it, there was only <em>one</em> which expressed <em>any</em> suspicion that it was not a <em>final</em> conclusion. This letter was from a child. She wrote “we were so glad, when we came to the end of the book, to find that there was no ending-up, for that shows us that you are going to write a sequel.”</p>
			<p>It may interest some of my Readers to know the <em>theory</em> on which this story is constructed. It is an attempt to show what might <em>possibly</em> happen, supposing that Fairies really existed; and that they were sometimes visible to us, and we to them; and that they were sometimes able to assume human form: and supposing, also, that human beings might sometimes become conscious of what goes on in the Fairy-world⁠—by actual transference of their immaterial essence, such as we meet with in “Esoteric Buddhism.”</p>
			<p>I have supposed a Human being to be capable of various psychical states, with varying degrees of consciousness, as follows:⁠—</p>
			<p>(<i>a</i>) the ordinary state, with no consciousness of the presence of Fairies;</p>
			<p>(<i>b</i>) the “eerie” state, in which, while conscious of actual surroundings, he is <em>also</em> conscious of the presence of Fairies;</p>
			<p>(<i>c</i>) a form of trance, in which, while <em>un</em>conscious of actual surroundings, and apparently asleep, he (<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> his immaterial essence) migrates to other scenes, in the actual world, or in Fairyland, and is conscious of the presence of Fairies.</p>
			<p>I have also supposed a Fairy to be capable of migrating from Fairyland into the actual world, and of assuming, at pleasure, a Human form; and also to be capable of various psychical states, <abbr class="eoc">viz.</abbr></p>
			<p>(<i>a</i>) the ordinary state, with no consciousness of the presence of Human beings;</p>
			<p>(<i>b</i>) a sort of “eerie” state, in which he is conscious, if in the actual world, of the presence of actual Human beings; if in Fairyland, of the presence of the immaterial essences of Human beings.</p>
			<p>I will here tabulate the passages, in both Volumes, where abnormal states occur.</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="4" scope="colgroup">Historian’s Locality and State</th>
						<th scope="col">Other Characters</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="5" scope="colgroup">
							<abbr>Vol.</abbr>
							<span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>
						</th>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml">In train</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td rowspan="5">
							<a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml">Chancellor. (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-3.xhtml#chapter-1-3-p-14">
								<abbr class="eoc">do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-5.xhtml#chapter-1-5-p-32">
								<abbr class="eoc">do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-6.xhtml#chapter-1-6-p-49">At lodgings</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-8.xhtml#chapter-1-8-p-21">On beach</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#chapter-1-9-p-20">At lodgings</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#chapter-1-9-p-20"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> (<i>b</i>). Professor.</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#chapter-1-14-p-16">In wood</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-14.xhtml#chapter-1-14-p-16">Bruno. (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#chapter-1-16-p-8"><abbr>do.</abbr> sleepwalking</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-16.xhtml#chapter-1-16-p-8"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#chapter-1-17-p-56">Among ruins</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td rowspan="2">
							<a href="chapter-1-17.xhtml#chapter-1-17-p-56"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#chapter-1-18-p-36"><abbr>do.</abbr> dreaming</a>
						</td>
						<td>
							<em>a</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#chapter-1-18-p-44"><abbr>do.</abbr> sleepwalking</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td rowspan="2">
							<a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#chapter-1-18-p-44"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> and Professor in Human form.</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#chapter-1-18-p-85">In street</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#chapter-1-19-p-29">At station, <abbr>etc.</abbr></a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#chapter-1-19-p-29"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml">In garden</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-21.xhtml"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> and Professor. (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#chapter-1-22-p-18">On road, <abbr>etc.</abbr></a>
						</td>
						<td>
							<em>a</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td rowspan="2">
							<a href="chapter-1-22.xhtml#chapter-1-22-p-18"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> in Human form.</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-23.xhtml">In street, <abbr>etc.</abbr></a>
						</td>
						<td>
							<em>a</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml">In wood</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-1-24.xhtml"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="5" scope="colgroup">
							<abbr>Vol.</abbr>
							<span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>
						</th>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#chapter-2-1-p-10">In garden</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#chapter-2-1-p-10"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">S.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">B.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#chapter-2-3-p-35">On road</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-3.xhtml#chapter-2-3-p-35"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#chapter-2-4-p-7">
								<abbr class="eoc">do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#chapter-2-4-p-7"><abbr>do.</abbr> in Human form.</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#chapter-2-5-p-61">
								<abbr class="eoc">do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td><a href="chapter-2-5.xhtml#chapter-2-5-p-61"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>b</i>)</a>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-10.xhtml#chapter-2-10-p-14">In drawing-room</a>
						</td>
						<td>
							<em>a</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-10.xhtml#chapter-2-10-p-14"><abbr>do.</abbr> in Human form.</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-14.xhtml#chapter-2-14-p-1">
								<abbr>do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-14.xhtml#chapter-2-14-p-1"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-p-1">In smoking-room</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-p-1"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-19.xhtml#chapter-2-19-p-64">In wood</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td rowspan="4">
							<a href="chapter-2-19.xhtml#chapter-2-19-p-64"><abbr>do.</abbr> (<i>a</i>); Lady Muriel (<i>b</i>).</a>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-20.xhtml#chapter-2-20-p-1">At lodgings</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-22.xhtml#chapter-2-22-p-18">
								<abbr>do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>c</em>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>
							<a href="chapter-2-25.xhtml#chapter-2-25-p-23">
								<abbr>do.</abbr>
							</a>
						</td>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<em>b</em>
						</td>
						<td/>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>In the Preface to <a href="volume-1-preface.xhtml"><abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>.</a>, I gave an account of the <em>origination</em> of some of the ideas embodied in the book. A few more such details may perhaps interest my Readers:⁠—</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>. The very peculiar use, here made of a dead mouse, comes from real life. I once found two very small boys, in a garden, playing a microscopic game of “Single-Wicket.” The bat was, I think, about the size of a tablespoon; and the utmost distance attained by the ball, in its most daring flights, was some 4 or 5 yards. The <em>exact</em> length was of course a matter of <em>supreme</em> importance; and it was always carefully measured out (the batsman and the bowler amicably sharing the toil) with a dead mouse!</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>. The two quasi-mathematical Axioms, quoted by Arthur at <a href="chapter-1-18.xhtml#chapter-1-18-p-16">chapter 18</a> of <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>, (“Things that are greater than the same are greater than one another,” and “All angles are equal”) were actually enunciated, in all seriousness, by undergraduates at a University situated not 100 miles from Ely.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#chapter-2-1-p-41">Bruno’s remark</a> (“I can, if I like, <abbr>etc.</abbr>”) was actually made by a little boy.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. So also was his <a href="chapter-2-1.xhtml#chapter-2-1-p-61">remark</a> (“I know what it <em>doesn’t</em> spell.”) And his remark (“I just twiddled my eyes, <abbr>etc.</abbr>”) I heard from the lips of a little girl, who had just solved a puzzle I had set her.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-2-4.xhtml#chapter-2-4-p-30">Bruno’s soliloquy</a> (“For its father, <abbr>etc.</abbr>”) was actually spoken by a little girl, looking out of the window of a railway-carriage.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. The <a href="chapter-2-9.xhtml#chapter-2-9-p-48">remark</a>, made by a guest at the dinner-party, when asking for a dish of fruit (“I’ve been wishing for them, <abbr>etc.</abbr>”) I heard made by the great Poet-Laureate, whose loss the whole reading-world has so lately had to deplore.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-2-11.xhtml#chapter-2-11-p-4">Bruno’s speech</a>, on the subject of the age of “Mein Herr,” embodies the reply of a little girl to the question “Is your grandmother an <em>old</em> lady?” “I don’t know if she’s an <em>old</em> lady,” said this cautious young person; “she’s <em>eighty-three</em>.”</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. The <a href="chapter-2-13.xhtml#chapter-2-13-p-32">speech</a> about “Obstruction” is no mere creature of my imagination! It is copied <em>verbatim</em> from the columns of the Standard, and was spoken by Sir William Harcourt, who was, at the time, a member of the “Opposition,” at the “National Liberal Club,” on July the 16th, 1890.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. <a href="chapter-2-21.xhtml#chapter-2-21-p-1">The Professor’s remark</a>, about a dog’s tail, that “it doesn’t bite at <em>that</em> end,” was actually made by a child, when warned of the danger he was incurring by pulling the dog’s tail.</p>
			<p><span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. The <a href="chapter-2-23.xhtml#chapter-2-23-p-39">dialogue</a> between Sylvie and Bruno, which occupies lines 6 to 15, is a <em>verbatim</em> report (merely substituting “cake” for “penny”) of a dialogue overheard between two children.</p>
			<p>One story in this Volume⁠—“Bruno’s Picnic”⁠—I can vouch for as suitable for telling to children, having tested it again and again; and, whether my audience has been a dozen little girls in a village-school, or some thirty or forty in a London drawing-room, or a hundred in a High School, I have always found them earnestly attentive, and keenly appreciative of such fun as the story supplied.</p>
			<p>May I take this opportunity of calling attention to what I flatter myself was a successful piece of name-coining, at <a href="chapter-1-4.xhtml#chapter-1-4-p-1">chapter 4</a> of <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>. Does not the name “Sibimet” fairly embody the character of the Sub-Warden? The gentle Reader has no doubt observed what a singularly useless article in a house a brazen trumpet is, if you simply leave it lying about, and never blow it!</p>
			<p>Readers of the first Volume, who have amused themselves by trying to solve the two puzzles propounded at the <a href="volume-1-preface.xhtml#volume-1-preface-p-9">Preface</a>, may perhaps like to exercise their ingenuity in discovering which (if any) of the following parallelisms were intentional, and which (if any) accidental.</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<th colspan="2">“Little Birds”</th>
						<th>Events, and Persons</th>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td rowspan="10">Stanza</td>
						<td>1.</td>
						<td>Banquet.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>2.</td>
						<td>Chancellor.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>3.</td>
						<td><a href="chapter-2-20.xhtml#chapter-2-20-p-80">Empress and Spinach</a>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>4.</td>
						<td>Warden’s Return.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>5.</td>
						<td><a href="chapter-2-21.xhtml#chapter-2-21-p-42">Professor’s Lecture</a>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>6.</td>
						<td><a href="chapter-1-10.xhtml#chapter-1-10-blockquote-1">Other Professor’s song</a>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>7.</td>
						<td>Petting of Uggug.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>8.</td>
						<td>Baron Doppelgeist.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>9.</td>
						<td><a href="chapter-1-9.xhtml#chapter-1-9-p-21">Jester and Bear</a>. Little Foxes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>10.</td>
						<td>Bruno’s Dinner-Bell; Little Foxes.</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>I will publish the answer to this puzzle in the Preface to a little book of “Original Games and Puzzles,” now in course of preparation.</p>
			<p>I have reserved, for the last, one or two rather more serious topics.</p>
			<p>I had intended, in this Preface, to discuss more fully, than I had done in the previous Volume, the “Morality of Sport,” with special reference to letters I have received from lovers of Sport, in which they point out the many great advantages which men get from it, and try to prove that the suffering, which it inflicts on animals, is too trivial to be regarded.</p>
			<p>But, when I came to think the subject out, and to arrange the whole of the arguments “pro” and “con,” I found it much too large for treatment here. Some day, I hope to publish an essay on this subject. At present, I will content myself with stating the net result I have arrived at.</p>
			<p>It is, that God has given to Man an absolute right to take the <em>lives</em> of other animals, for <em>any</em> reasonable cause, such as the supply of food: but that He has <em>not</em> given to Man the right to inflict <em>pain</em>, unless when <em>necessary</em>: that mere pleasure, or advantage, does not constitute such a necessity: and, consequently, that pain, inflicted for the purposes of <em>Sport</em>, is cruel, and therefore wrong. But I find it a far more complex question than I had supposed; and that the “case,” on the side of the Sportsman, is a much stronger one than I had supposed. So, for the present, I say no more about it.</p>
			<p>Objections have been raised to the severe language I have put into the mouth of “Arthur,” at <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#chapter-1-19-p-26">chapter 19</a>, <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, on the subject of “Sermons,” <a href="chapter-2-17.xhtml#chapter-2-17-p-37">earlier</a> in the chapter, on the subjects of Choral Services and “Choristers.”</p>
			<p>I have already protested against the assumption that I am ready to endorse the opinions of characters in my story. But, in these two instances, I admit that I am much in sympathy with “Arthur.” In my opinion, far too many sermons are expected from our preachers; and, as a consequence, a great many are preached, which are not worth listening to; and, as a consequence of <em>that</em>, we are very apt <em>not</em> to listen. The reader of this paragraph probably heard a sermon last Sunday morning? Well, let him, if he can, name the text, and state how the preacher treated it!</p>
			<p>Then, as to “Choristers,” and all the other accessories⁠—of music, vestments, processions, <abbr>etc.</abbr>⁠—which have come, along with them, into fashion⁠—while freely admitting that the “Ritual” movement was sorely needed, and that it has effected a vast improvement in our Church-Services, which had become dead and dry to the last degree, I hold that, like many other desirable movements, it has gone too far in the opposite direction, and has introduced many new dangers.</p>
			<p>For the Congregation this new movement involves the danger of learning to think that the Services are done <em>for</em> them; and that their bodily <em>presence</em> is all they need contribute. And, for Clergy and Congregation alike, it involves the danger of regarding these elaborate Services as <em>ends in themselves</em>, and of forgetting that they are simply <em>means</em>, and the very hollowest of mockeries, unless they bear fruit in our <em>lives</em>.</p>
			<p>For the Choristers it seems to involve the danger of self-conceit, as described at <a href="chapter-1-19.xhtml#chapter-1-19-p-20">chapter 19</a>, <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>, the danger of regarding those parts of the Service, where their help is not required, as not worth attending to, the danger of coming to regard the Service as a mere outward form⁠—a series of postures to be assumed, and of words to be said or sung, while the <em>thoughts</em> are elsewhere⁠—and the danger of “familiarity” breeding “contempt” for sacred things.</p>
			<p>Let me illustrate these last two forms of danger, from my own experience. Not long ago, I attended a Cathedral-Service, and was placed immediately behind a row of men, members of the Choir; and I could not help noticing that they treated the <em>Lessons</em> as a part of the Service to which they needed not to give <em>any</em> attention, and as affording them a convenient opportunity for arranging music-books, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> Also I have frequently seen a row of little choristers, after marching in procession to their places, kneel down, as if about to pray, and rise from their knees after a minute spent in looking about them, it being but too evident that the attitude was a mere mockery. Surely it is very dangerous, for these children, to thus accustom them to <em>pretend</em> to pray? As an instance of irreverent treatment of holy things, I will mention a custom, which no doubt many of my readers have noticed in Churches where the Clergy and Choir enter in procession, <abbr>viz.</abbr> that, at the end of the private devotions, which are carried on in the vestry, and which are of course inaudible to the Congregation, the final “Amen” is <em>shouted</em>, loud enough to be heard all through the Church. This serves as a signal, to the Congregation, to prepare to rise when the procession appears: and it admits of no dispute that it is for this purpose that it is thus shouted. When we remember to Whom that “Amen” is <em>really</em> addressed, and consider that it is here <em>used</em> for the same purpose as one of the Church-bells, we must surely admit that it is a piece of gross irreverence? To <em>me</em> it is much as if I were to see a Bible used as a footstool.</p>
			<p>As an instance of the dangers, for the Clergy themselves, introduced by this new movement, let me mention the fact that, according to <em>my</em> experience, Clergymen of this school are <em>specially</em> apt to retail comic anecdotes, in which the most sacred names and words⁠—sometimes actual texts from the Bible⁠—are used as themes for jesting. Many such things are repeated as having been originally said by <em>children</em>, whose utter ignorance of evil must no doubt acquit <em>them</em>, in the sight of God, of all blame; but it must be otherwise for those who <em>consciously</em> use such innocent utterances as material for their unholy mirth.</p>
			<p>Let me add, however, <em>most</em> earnestly, that I fully believe that this profanity is, in many cases, <em>un</em>conscious: the “environment” (as I have tried to explain at <a href="chapter-2-8.xhtml#chapter-2-8-p-45">chapter 8</a>, <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>) makes all the difference between man and man; and I rejoice to think that many of these profane stories⁠—which <em>I</em> find so painful to listen to, and should feel it a sin to repeat⁠—give to <em>their</em> ears no pain, and to <em>their</em> consciences no shock; and that <em>they</em> can utter, not less sincerely than myself, the two prayers, “<em>Hallowed be Thy Name</em>” and “<em>from hardness of heart, and contempt of Thy Word and Commandment, Good Lord, deliver us!</em>” To which I would desire to add, for their sake and for my own, Keble’s beautiful petition, “<em>help us, this and every day, To live more nearly as we pray!</em>” It is, in fact, for its <em>consequences</em>⁠—for the grave dangers, both to speaker and to hearer, which it involves⁠—rather than for what it is <em>in itself</em>, that I mourn over this clerical habit of profanity in social talk. To the <em>believing</em> hearer it brings the danger of loss of reverence for holy things, by the mere act of listening to, and enjoying, such jests; and also the temptation to retail them for the amusement of others. To the <em>unbelieving</em> hearer it brings a welcome confirmation of his theory that religion is a fable, in the spectacle of its accredited champions thus betraying their trust. And to the speaker himself it must surely bring the danger of <em>loss of faith</em>. For surely such jests, if uttered with no consciousness of harm, must necessarily be also uttered with no consciousness, at the moment, of the <em>reality</em> of God, as a <em>living being</em>, who hears all we say. And he, who allows himself the habit of thus uttering holy words, with no thought of their meaning, is but too likely to find that, for him, God has become a myth, and heaven a poetic fancy⁠—that, for him, the light of life is gone, and that he is at heart an atheist, lost in “<em>a darkness that may be felt</em>.”</p>
			<p>There is, I fear, at the present time, an increasing tendency to irreverent treatment of the name of God and of subjects connected with religion. Some of our theatres are helping this downward movement by the gross caricatures of clergymen which they put upon the stage: some of our clergy are themselves helping it, by showing that they can lay aside the spirit of reverence, along with their surplices, and can treat as jests, when <em>outside</em> their churches, names and things to which they pay an almost superstitious veneration when <em>inside</em>: the “Salvation Army” has, I fear, with the best intentions, done much to help it, by the coarse familiarity with which they treat holy things: and surely everyone, who desires to <em>live</em> in the spirit of the prayer “<em>Hallowed be thy Name</em>,” ought to do what he can, however little that may be, to check it. So I have gladly taken this unique opportunity, however unfit the topic may seem for the Preface to a book of this kind, to express some thoughts which have weighed on my mind for a long time. I did not expect, when I wrote the Preface to <abbr>Vol.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>, that it would be read to any appreciable extent: but I rejoice to believe, from evidence that has reached me, that it <em>has</em> been read by many, and to hope that this Preface will also be so: and I think that, among them, some will be found ready to sympathise with the views I have put forwards, and ready to help, with their prayers and their example, the revival, in Society, of the waning spirit of reverence.</p>
			<footer>
				<p><time datetime="1893-12-25">Christmas, 1893</time>.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
